# BOI 2009 Day 1

## 1. Beetle
(very cool problem)

The beetle eats a continuous range of water droplets. The equation to calculate for a continuous range $[x_l,x_r]$ is $(M-t_l)+(M-t{l+1})+\dots+(M-t_r)$ where $t_i$ is the time the beetle reaches droplet $i$. We can denote $D$ as the total amount of droplets in the range and rearrange to $DM-\sum_{i=l}^{r}t_i$, so the goal is to minimize the sum of $t_i$ for a fixed $D$.

I'll now present a slow dp that we will optimize. Let $L[l][r][m]$ be the minimum sum of $t_i$ we can achieve for the range $[x_l,x_r]$ assuming the time we reach the last droplet is $m$, and the last droplet we reach is $x_l$ (hence the name of the dp array being $L$. So also make a corresponding $R$ dp array). It should be pretty easy to update this by transitioning from $L[l][r][m]$ to $L[l-1][r][m'_1]$ and $R[l][r+1][m'_2]$, and same for the $R$ array. However, it times out because of the $m$ dimension in the dp array.

Now we optimize by taking advantage of the function corresponding to the sum of $t_i$. Sorting by $t_i$ (i.e. order we eat the droplets), let $d_i=t_{i+1}-t_i$. The sum will then equal to $(D-1)d_i+(D-2)d_{i+1}+\dots+d_{D-1}$. It's easy to see that if we go in reverse, then calculating the $t_i$ sum is possible without having the extra $m$ dimension. Just add the first $d$ value once, the second $d$ value twice, etc.

With this strategy of going in reverse, let $L[l][r][k]$ be the minimum $t$ sum assuming we started at drop $l$ and then ate $k$ new drops, none of which are in the range $(x_l,x_r]$. We basically assume that we <b>started</b> at drop $l$ having already eaten all the droplets in that range. If it's unclear why, then just try completely reversing the ideas of the first dp.

We transition to $L[l][r][k]$ and $R[l][r][k]$ from $L[l-1][r][k-1]$ and $R[l][r+1][k-1]$. For base cases, $L[l][r][1]=R[l][r][1]=0$ for all pairs $(l,r)$. To calculate the answer, we simply look at each value $L[z][z][k]$ where $x_z=0$ and $k$ is anything. The time complexity is $O(N^3)$.

## 2. Candy Machine
See the Gold problem [Apple Catching](https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1233).

Using similar ideas, we transpose each coordinate $(s_i,p_i)$ to $(s_i+p_i,p_i-s_i)$ (henceforth referred to as $(x_i,y_i)$), and say that a wagon assigned to candy $i$ can catch candy $j$ if $x_i\le{x_j}$ and $y_i\le{y_j}$.

Store all $y$ values in an array, and sort these $y$ values by the corresponding $x$ value. Formally, for any for two indices in the array $i$ and $j$ ($i<j$), $x_i\le{x_j}$ must be satisfied. 

This takes care of the $x$ constraint. We now see that the number of wagons comes from the minimum amount of non-decreasing subsequences needed to cover the whole array. We can find this value, and also construct a valid delegation of candies to wagons, by using the obvious greedy strategy. Time complexity is $O(NlogN)$.