# COMPFEST 12

## D. Danger of Mad Snakes
Expanding the square sum (of the score of an attack plan) leads us to the following conclusion: the score of an attack plan is determined as the sum of all $B_iB_j$ for all ordered pairs $(i,j)$ killed in the attack.

It's easy to extend this to the sum of scores of all attack plans. For each ordered pair $(i,j)$, find the amount of ways for an attack plan to kill both $i$ and $j$ (let it be $P$), and add $PB_iB_j$ to the answer. We can calculate $P$ with inclusion exclusion:
 - $B$ is the amount of snakes, that when attacked, kill both $i$ and $j$ (calculate with 2d prefix sums).
 - $I$ is the amount of snakes, that when attacked, only kill $i$. $J$ is defined similarly.

We either pick at least one snake from the set of snakes constituting $B$, or pick no snakes from $B$ and at least one from $I$ and at least one from $J$. These are both calculated with combinatorics.

So the time complexity is $O(N^2)$.

## E. Excitation of Atoms
If $K=0$, then nothing can be changed, so find the maximum value of $-d_i+\sum_{j=i}^N{a_j}$.

If $K\ge{2}$, then we can create a path from any atom $i$ to atom $N$, passing through all other atoms. So we find the maximum value of $-d_i+\sum_{j=0}^N{a_j}$. We can also just excite atom $N$ by itself, so compare the answer with $a_N-d_N$ and take the maximum.

If $K=1$, then we need casework. If we change the bond for atom $i$, then it's optimal to connect it either to an atom before it (which creates a loop), or an atom after it (which doesn't create a loop). The optimal atoms are $1$ and $i+2$ respectively, and we can do casework and prefix/suffix maximums to figure out the best answers for these configurations.

Time complexity: $O(N)$.