# AGC 015

## C. Nuske vs Phantom Thnook
Let $ps[i][j]$ be the amount of connected components present in the rectangular region defined by the top left corner $(1,1)$ and the bottom right corner $(i,j)$. This is done almost identically to 2d prefix sums:
 - First set $ps[i][j]=ps[i-1][j]+ps[i][j-1]-ps[i-1][j-1]$. This gives the amount of components if $(i,j)$ was colored white. The proof of this, is also identical to one used for 2d prefix sums.
 - If $(i,j)$ is blue and none of $(i-1,j)$ and $(i,j-1)$ are blue, then add one to $ps[i][j]$ because this is a new component.
 - If $(i,j)$, $(i-1,j)$, and $(i,j-1)$ are all blue, then subtract one from $ps[i][j]$ because we merge those two components.

By querying $ps[x_2][y_2]-ps[x_2][y_1-1]-ps[x_1-1][y_2]+ps[x_1-1][y_1-1]$, we can get the amount of components that are contained entirely inside the rectangle $[1,1]\times[x_2,y_2]$, minus the amount of components inside $[1,1]\times[x_2,y_2]$ but outside $[x_1,y_1]\times[x_2,y_2]$, minus the amount of components crossing between the $x_1$ row border, minus the amount of components crossing between the $y_1$ column border. For example, the amount of components crossing some arbitrary row $x$ can be formally expressed as the amount of $1\le{i}\le{N}$ such that $(x,i)$ and $(x-1,i)$ are both blue.

So we just add back all those crossing components. These are done with some easy 1d prefix sums across the corresponding row and column.

Now we have the answer in $O(1)$ per query after $O(NM)$ preprocessing, for a time complexity of $O(NM+Q)$.