# Codeforces Round 839

## E. Permutation Game
The first player wins if all red elements are in their correct positions, because he can sort the remaining blue elements to get the desired array. Same goes for the second player. So, both players will only operate on elements that are not in their correct positions.

Let the set of elements that the first player must change ($a_i\ne{i})$ be $A$, the set of elements for the second player $(a_i\ne{N-i+1})$ be $B$, and the set that both players must change (both conditions satisfied) be $C$. Each player first wants to tackle their respective sets ($A$ and $B$); it's not optimal for either player to remove an element from $C$ until their respective set is empty.

If player 1 empties $A$ first, then player 1 is the first to remove an element from $C$. So, he wins if the current size of $C$ is less than or equal to the current size of $B$. Otherwise, it's a tie.

If player 2 empties $B$ first, then he removes from $C$ first. He wins if the current size of $C$ is strictly less than the current size of $A$, because he moves second. It is a tie otherwise.

The time complexity is $O(N)$.

## G. Gaining Rating
Editorial has a slightly different approach that I like more.

Monocarp must defeat the opponents cyclically. This means he play against all of them exactly one time, then a second time, etc. 

Playing against all opponents once is an <b>iteration</b>. In each iteration, we want to defeat the opponents in order of increasing $a_i$. Let the amount our rating changes by going through a whole iteration be the <b>delta</b>. After sorting the array $a$, then in any given iteration, the players that we can beat must be a prefix of $a$. So, let the last player we can beat be $P$. The delta is $P-(N-P)$.

At each point, there are two events that can happen. Either we beat player $P+1$, or we reach rating $Y$. Using the current delta, we can calculate the amount of <b>full</b> iterations that will occur until the first event happens, and until the second event happens (or say that it's impossible with the current delta). Note that the events will certainly occur in the middle of an iteration, but that information isn't necessary, as the only partial iteration that will occur is the last one, which is the iteration that we reach rating $Y$.

If both events are impossible, then it's definitely impossible to reach rating $Y$ so stop here. If the number of iterations before we can beat player $P+1$ is strictly less than the amount needed to reach rating $Y$ (or achieving rating $Y$ is currently impossible), then we simulate that many iterations with the current delta, and update our current rating and the answer. Otherwise, we reach rating $Y$ first, so simulate that many iterations, but also the final partial iteration. $O(NlogN)$.