# Codeforces Global Round 27

## E. Monster
This is fun; I had two failed solutions, looked at the editorial, and then came up with different logic leading to the same solution. 

Assume that when we beat the boss, the final weapon has been upgraded $a$ times. The greedy strategy would obviously be to first repeatedly upgrade until $a$ damage (upgrade in blocks of $k$; hit the monster once after every $k$ upgrades), then repeatedly hit until the monster dies (the amount of times you hit after upgrading is $b$). $a$ and $b$ are inversely related, so as we increase $a$, the minimum $b$ decreases (and vice versa). If we fix $a$ then it's optimal to minimize $b$ as this minimizes the cost.

After fixing $a$, we can calculate the minimum $b$ with $O(1)$ math simulation. If we fix $b$, then calculate the minimum $a$ through binary search. We actually don't have to brute-force all $a$ or $b$; because $a$ and $b$ are inversely related, only brute force $a$ for $a\le{b}$ and vice versa. Basically, continue up to $a=b$.

I will assume the worst case $k=z$, in which case you don't deal any side damage to the monster when upgrading the weapon. So in this case, all $z$ damage must come from the $b$ hits. This forces $ab\ge{z}$ as a lower bound. As the upper bound, $ab$ must be less than the first square that is $\ge{z}$, so $z\le{ab}\le(\lceil{\sqrt{z}}\rceil)^2$. This is because it's never optimal for $a,b>\lceil\sqrt{z}\rceil$ because it's always possible to further reduce $a$ or $b$ while still maintaining $ab\ge{z}$.  Therefore, ${a,b}\le{\lceil{\sqrt{z}}\rceil}$, so just independently brute force all $a$ and $b$ up to $\lceil{\sqrt{z}}\rceil$. The time complexity is $O(\sqrt{Z}logZ)$.

Also, my failed solutions were ternary searching on the min-cost function for a fixed $a$ (but it actually isn't unimodal, although it's been done by others [with some cheese](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/135892)), and a repeated binary search to find all unique $b$ values from highest to lowest. I do that by repeatedly searching for the minimum $a$ that produces a new unique $b$. That works conceptually, but it timed out (although if some stuff were optimized, I'm confident it would work). Here is [the submission](https://codeforces.com/contest/2035/submission/295354012).

## F. Tree Operations
If $p$ operations works, then $p+2N$ works by decrementing and incrementing each node by one. So fix $p\pmod{2N}$ (denoted $b$), and binary search on the earliest $M$ such that $2N\cdot{M}+b$ works. Take the minimum out of all these answers.

We need a check function. Given the amount of operations, we can figure out how many operations are applied to each node $i$. Let that be $cnt_i$. We can translate the operations into redistributing $cnt_i$ into the subtree of $i$; the resulting $cnt$ values tell how many times each node is decremented/incremented.

It works if after redistribution, for each $i$, $cnt_i\ge{a_i}$ and $cnt_i-a_i$ is even. So we can just do dp from the leaves up. For all children $j$ of $i$, we first distribute $cnt_i$ to $cnt_j$ if $cnt_j<a_j$, as to satisfy the first condition. After this, for all $j$, if $cnt_j-a_j$ is odd, then we transfer one operation to $cnt_j$ from $cnt_i$ as to make the difference even. At the end, check the root satisfies the above conditions.

This runs in $O(N^2logA)$. The time limit is pretty tight, but it can be sped up with:
 1) only check values of $2N\cdot{M}+b$ that are the same parity as $\sum{a_i}$.
 2) implement iterative dfs instead of recursive
 3) heuristic optimization, but modify the initial upper bound of each binary search as to make sure that all values checked are strictly less than the current answer.