# ARC 191

## A. Replace Digits
Operations can be done in any order (with the exception that $T_{M}$ must be in the string).

So greedily assign digits of $T$, starting from the largest, to positions in $S$, starting from the most significant. If after this, $T_M$ is not in the final string, then set the least significant position in $S$ (which is $S_N$) to be $T_M$.

$O(N+M)$

## C. A^n - 1
This feeling I got when getting AC on this problem was absolutely unbelievable; the solution is so simple (and can be derived (somewhat) logically).

Expand $A^n-1$ with the binomial theorem, and it's immediately clear that the expression is divisible by $A-1$.

The above holds true regardless of $N$ though: we want to have $M$ expressed in terms of $N$, not $A$. After trying some values of $A$, we see that for $A=N+1$, each term is divisible by $N^2$.

Setting $M=N^2$ works: all other terms (except the term $nN$ are divisible by $N^2$ regardless of $n$), so the expression is $\equiv{nN}\pmod{N^2}$, and thus no $n<N$ will work.

$O(1)$ time complexity.

## D. Moving Pieces on Graph
Find any shortest path $P$ from $S$ to $T$. Let its length be $L$.

### Strategy 1
Let's assume some vertex $K$ on $P$ (excluding $S$ and $T$) has degree $>2$. In other words, $X$ is adjacent to at least one neighbour that is not any of the adjacent vertices to $X$ on the shortest path.

We can utilize this node adjacent to $X$ to move one token out of the way of the other token: first we move it off $P$ to let the other token pass through $P$, then move it back to $P$ and continue its traversal along $P$. Thus the cost of this is $2L+2$.

### Strategy 2
Another strategy is to select the shortest (simple) path $P_2$ from $S$ to $T$, that is not equal to $P$. Let its length be $L_2$.

We move one token along $P$ and the other along $P_2$, alternating movement as necessary to avoid collision between the tokens. This has cost $L+L_2$.

$P_2$ differs from $P$ by at least one edge, so the general idea is to iterate over all prefixes of edges of $P$, and try using a different edge than the next edge in $P$. Then we run multisource BFS from all these nodes to get the answer. There are a couple important implementation details (e.g. never process node $S$ in the BFS; when going over prefixes of $P$, don't process the last prefix, which is just $P$ itself).

### Strategy 3
Let's go back to the first strategy. Let's find the closest node to $S$ with degree $>2$, then is is adjacent to at least two nodes that are not on the simple path between that node and $S$. Let's take any two of these nodes, $X$ and $X_2$ ($X\ne{X_2}$).

We move the token on $S$ to $X$, then the token on $T$ to $X_2$, then the token on $X$ to $X_2$, then the token on $X_2$ to $S$.

If the closest node to $S$ with degree $>2$ is $L_3$ away, then the cost of this is $2L+4L_3+4$.

### Conclusion
There is no solution if and only if the graph is a line graph, which leads us to believe that the above cases are sufficient for any transformation of a line graph. The time complexity of this is $O(N+M)$. 