# Educational Codeforces Round 77

## C. Infinite Fence
This took me a while to solve; I got stuck on finding the max red planks between two blue ones and the editorial didn't help sadly.

WLOG assume $r<b$; if $r=b$ then it's always possible, and if $r>b$ then swap the two. There must exist at least one red plank between every two blue planks, so we should choose to paint planks that are multiples of $r$ and $b$ as blue. The question boils down to the following: what is the maximum amount of red planks that will ever be between two blue planks? To maximize the total amount, we want to ask what is the earliest position of a red plank between two blue planks? Or, what's the minimum positive value of $xr-yb$ for integers $x$ and $y$?

As it turns out, the solution is $gcd(r,b)$. We want to minimize $c$ in the linear diophantine equation of $ax-by=c$, given $a$ and $b$, with positive coefficients $x$ and $y$. [More info](https://cp-algorithms.com/algebra/linear-diophantine-equation.html)

Keeping $x$ and $y$ positive are trivial, because it's the same as solving $ax+by=c$ with $y$ as negative and $x$ as positive, for which there are infinitely many solutions to. There exists a solution only when $c$ is divisible by $gcd(a,b)$, so we can see that the minimum value possible is $gcd(a,b)$. Doing the math to see if at least $K$ red planks can fit within two blue planks, with the first red plank starting at $gcd(r,b)$, will give the verdict.

Time complexity: $O(log\max(a,b))$ per test case.