# USACO Gold 2025 Feb

## 1. Bessie's Function
Draw a directed edge between $i$ and $a_i$. It's a functional graph. If $f(f(x))=f(x)$, then every node points directly to a self loop, or is in a self loop. Only then can function $f$ be idempotent.

So it's impossible to have a cycle in the final graph that isn't a self loop, meaning that we can delete an arbitrary edge from every functional graph cycle, and then reverse all edges, to turn it into a tree. Obviously, deleting the arbitrary edge might not be a good decision. But the resulting graph can only contain either that edge or the next edge in the cycle, so we can simply try deleting both and taking the minimum.

Define two arrays $dp_1[i]$ and $dp_2[i]$. $dp_1[i]$ stores the minimum cost for the subtree of $i$, such that the edge from $i$ to its parent is unchanged, and not in a self loop. $dp_2[i]$ stores the minimum cost given that $i$ is in a self loop. If we change an edge, then it's optimal to put that node in a self loop, so these are the only two possibilities.

$dp_1[i]$ transitions from the sum of all $dp_2[c]$ for all children $c$ or $i$, and $dp_2[i]$ transitions from the sum of all $\min(dp_2[c],dp_1[c])$. This runs in $O(N)$.

## 2. The Best Subsequence
After all updates, there are at most $2M$ components of $0$ and $1$ formed. We can calculate all these components/process all updates by using techniques similar to a difference array.

Finding the largest subsequence is done through the following procedure:
 - Let the set of all 1s in $[l,r]$ be $S$.
 - If $|S|\ge{k}$, then the optimal subsequence is entirely of 1s.
 - Otherwise, continuously add the rightmost zero in $[l,r]$, that is currently not in $S$, to $S$ until $|S|=k$.

It's clear that this subsequence is composed of a bunch of scattered 1s in the front (referred to as the prefix), followed by a suffix of the range $[l,r]$.

First, create two functions that return the amount of 1s in any range, and the binary representation of any range. It's done with some prefix sums/casework, and the binary one also needs mod inverses. The first function returns in $O(logM)$ time, and the second in $O(logM+logN)$ time.

We want to find the longest prefix as to maximize the lexicographical order of the subsequence. The last occurence of 1 in the prefix must be at the very end of a component of 1s (proved by contradiction). So we can binary search on the rightmost component of 1s (at position $p$) such that the amount of characters in the range $[p+1,r]$, plus the amount of 1s in the range $[l,p]$, is $\ge{k}$.

This gives us the largest prefix, and we can easily find the corresponding suffix. If the prefix has size $c$, then the suffix is $[r-(k-c)+1,r]$. We can find the binary equivalents of these and merge them together to get our final answer.

The time complexity is $O(MlogN+Q(log^2M+logN))$.

### Comments:
I might pass. I fully solved 1 and 2, and did a yolo brute force algorithm for 3, to get a score of 733. Even with two hours to spend on 3 I couldn't solve it.

1 was pretty easy after realizing that it was just a functional graph/tree dp problem. I completely avoided the tree dp unit on usaco guide, so fortunately I was able to come up with some pretty elegant code to solve the problem.

2 was intimidating but resolved very nicely. It is my favorite problem in the contest. I'm also surprised that I got this problem without needing absolutely any debugging at all.

3 seems impossible. I made zero observations even though it's super clear that it's a bitmask dp/meet in the middle problem, and I resorted to brute forcing the adjacency list of two fixed nodes and then resolving contradictions in the graph.

codeforces ratings: 1 is probably 2000, 2 seems like 2200/2300, and 3 seems like 2500+.