## ABC 356

## D. Masked Popcount
Clearly it is too costly to iterate over $N$, so we can optimize by iterating over all $log_2N$ bits of $M$. If bit $i$ is off, then it will contribute $0$ to the answer. Otherwise, using the property of bits, we can figure out that bit $i$ will be turned on in exactly half of all numbers that are a multiple of $2^i$. Therefore, we can use this to figure out how many numbers $\le M$ have bit $i$ turned on.

Time complexity is $O(log_2N)$.

## E. Max/Min
First we sort the array as to ensure that every number is the minimum for the remaining suffix of the array. So iterate over every number, then compute the answer for this number with all numbers ahead of it in the array.

Note that all numbers of the array must be $\le{10^6}$, so any number $x$ has $10^6\over{x}$ multiples. Assuming there are three multiples for $x$, the answer for $x$ is calculated as follows:
 - The amount of numbers $\ge{3x}$ is $A$.
 - The amount in the range $[2x,3x)$ is $B$.
 - The amount in the range $[x,2x)$ is $C$.
 - Then, it follows that the answer for $x$ is $3A + 2B + 1C$.

The problem is essentially solved. We precompute the answer for all numbers $x$, which is the harmonic series and thus amounts to a time complexity of $O(AlogA)$. Duplicate elements are a small side case but can be easily dealt with — if the original answer for $x$ is $S_x$, then the answer for the $i$ th occurence of $x$ is $S_x-i+1$.
We can precompute the answer for all numbers x (harmonic series).

In my solution, it runs in $O(AlogAlogN)$.

(Easier) Side problem: Instead of computing the sum of the floored divisions, compute the floor of the summed divisions.

## F. Distance Component Size Query
At any point, the components partition $S$ into disjoint groups. What we can do is store the points at which each component ends. For calculating $x$, all we have to do is find the endpoints of the component containing $x$ (with binary search) and then find the amount of values in that component (done with a segment tree or BIT).

It remains to calculate when each component starts and ends. It's clear that when adding a number, it joins at most two components together, and when removing a number, it splits its current component into at most two pieces. For deletion, which case occurs is merely dependent on if the numbers to the left and right of it in the set are directly reachable from each other without the middleman of $x$. For adding, we just join $x$ into the components bordering it if the distance to them is $\le{K}$. Thus, we can dynamically update when components start and end, and then plug it into a BIT query to get an answer. In total, it runs in $O(QlogQ)$ after coordinate compression.