# APIO 2009

## 1. Digging for Oil
Given any three squares, it's always possible to draw a vertical or horizontal line such that two of the squares are on one side of the line and the other is on the other side. So, the goal is to find, for every line, that maximum sum covered by two squares on one side of the line, and the the maximum sum covered by a single square on the other side of the line. Then just go through all possible lines and combine answers. 

Solving for one square is much easier; use 2d prefix sums to calculate the sum of any square in $O(1)$ time. Then if we initialize two 2d arrays (originating from the top left and bottom right) where the value at index $(i,j)$ equals the maximum sum of a square in the region from the top left (or bottom right) to cell $(i,j)$, then the max sum of one square on either side of any line can be retrieved in $O(1)$. 

Solving for two squares is relatively simple if we consider it as an offshoot of one square: initialize two more 2d arrays with the same states as the ones above, except they contain the max sum for two squares now. So for each pair $(i,j)$, consider if a second square was placed here. Thus, update the value at this position as the sum of the sum of this square and the maximum sum of a single square in the remaining (non-overlapping) area.

Note that we have to run the algorithm considering arrays originating from the bottom left and top right corners as well, because only considering top left and bottom right won't suffice for the two square sum for some cases. This can be done by horizontally mirroring the grid and then repeating the exact same code on this new grid. In total, the runtime is $O(NM)$.