# Baltic OI 2012 Day 1
https://oj.uz/problem/view/BOI12_mobile

## 2 - Mobile

### Solution 1

We can binary search on the answer, $R$. Then, we can draw a circle with radius $R$ around every station.
Now, because we only consider points on the highway segment, we can calculate the endpoints of the part of the x-axis intersecting the circle.
This is equivalent to finding the length of a chord, which can be done with the pythagorean theorem.
We will denote these endpoints as $X_1$ and $X_2$.
Then, $R$ works if there exists some point on the highway not contained in any segment $(X_1,X_2)$ - it is fine if it is on the endpoints of a segment.

Note that the x-coordinates are given in sorted order, so for strictly increasing x coordinates, the coordinate $X_1$ will strictly increase.
This means that we can store the largest $X_2$ coordinate so far, and update it if some $X_1 < X_2$ (meaning the two segments intersect). Then, the answer is if $L \ge X_2$ at the end.

However, for some pair of coordinates $(a,b),(c,d)$ such that $a = c$ and $b < d < 0$, the points are given as $(a,b)$,then $(c,d)$.
But the $X_1$ coordinate for $(c,d)$ is less than the $X_1$ coordinate for $(a,b)$. In these cases though, although the $X_1$ point is less, the $X_2$ point is greater.
So the segment for $(c,d)$ contains the segment for $(a,b)$, and thus it is simply fine to compare them in the order given.

Also, make sure to use doubles, as if you use long doubles then the extra computation for the square roots will time out.

Here is some not working code (because I first assumed $X_1$ is always non-decreasing):

<i>
if (x1 > d) {return (d>=prev);}<br>
else if (x1 >= prev) {return true;}<br>
prev = max(prev, x2);<br>
</i><br>

### Solution 2 (Mentioned in the usaco guide analysis).
Consider two points $A$ and $B$, and draw the line segment from $A$ to $B$, $\overline{AB}$. We can draw the perpendicular bisector of $\overline{AB}$ and connect it to the x-axis.
The point where the bisector intersects the x-axis is equidistant to $A$ and $B$. All points to the left of the perpendicular bisector are closer to $A$; everything to the right is closer to $B$. 
 - (Proof): Draw two points $A$ and $B$ ($A$ is to the left of $B$), and draw the line segment $\overline{AB}$ and perpendicular bisector.
 - Label the point where it intersects the x axis $D$, and the point where it intersects segment $\overline{AB}$ as $C$. Thus ${\overline{CD}} \perp {\overline{AB}}$.
 - Draw line segments $\overline{AD}$ and $\overline{BD}$. Then ${\triangle{CDA}} \cong {\triangle{CDB}}$, thus $\overline{DA} \cong \overline{DB}$.
 - So the point $D$ is equidistant from $A$ and $B$.<br><br>

 - Let's draw a point on the x-axis to the left of $D$, labeled $E$. 
 - We will prove $E$ is closer to $A$ than to $B$; that is, $\overline{EA} < \overline{EB}$.
 - $\overline{ED} \cong \overline{ED}$ by the reflexive property, and $\overline{DA} \cong \overline{DB}$ (proved earlier). 
 - Now we have two triangles, $\triangle EDA$ and $\triangle EDB$. $\overline{EA}$ is shorter than $\overline{EB}$ if $m{\angle EDA} < m{\angle EDB}$.
 - Clearly, if two sides of a triangle are congruent then the greater the included angle the larger the third side.
 - You can also use law of cosines: $a^2 + b^2 - 2abcosC = c^2.$ In this case $a$ and $b$ are fixed, and across all points $E$ the angles $C$ are fixed.
 - The less the angle, the larger the result as cosine decreases from $[0,180]$, thus the third side is longer.<br><br>

 - Back to the proof: $m\angle EDA < m\angle EDB$ because $\overline{AD}$ and $\overline{BD}$ share a common point on the x-axis ($D$) and $A$ is to the left of $B$; thus $\angle EDB$ contains $\angle EDA$, so $m{\angle EDA} < m{\angle EDB}$.

Consider three points $A$, $B$, and $C$ ($A_x<B_x<C_x$), and draw the perpendicular bisectors of the line segments $\overline{AB}$ and $\overline{BC}$.
If they intersect above or on the x-axis, then all points from $A_x$ to $C_x$ are closer to $A$ and to $C$ than to $B$, so $B$ is irrelevant.
Therefore we can store all the points in a stack.