# Codeforces Round 975

## A. Max Plus Size
Fix each element $i$ as the max. For each element, we then have to take the max size, so if $i$ is in an odd-numbered position, we can take $\lceil{N\over{2}}\rceil$ by taking every other element, starting from $1$. If $i$ is in an even-numbered position, we can take $\lfloor{N\over{2}}\rfloor$ elements by taking every other one, starting from $2$. Note that although some of those elements may be greater than our fixed maximum, it won't change the answer because the answer for $i$ will obviously be less than the answer for that larger element.

As a side result (and helpful for F), it's always optimal to take some occurence of the maximum. This is proven by the following: it can't be optimal to not take the max, because if we add the max then the size decreases by at most one, and the max element out of the subset that we pick will increase by at least one.

Iteration takes $O(N)$.

## F. Max Plus Min Plus Size
Similar reasoning as to problem A proves that we always want to take some occurence of the max.

Fix the minimum, and we can only consider $a_i$ in the range $[min,max]$. Connect $a_i$ and $a_{i+1}$ with an edge if they both can be picked, i.e. they are both in the range $[min,max]$. If we iterate over the min in decreasing order, then we see that the monotonically growing connected components can be stored with DSU.

Our process is as follows:
 - Iterate over the minimum in decreasing order.
 - For each minimum, add all elements with this value and recalculate components.
 - Calculate the optimal answer for this set of components.

Refer to the strong coloring of a component as coloring all odd indexed elements, indexed from the beginning of a component. The weak coloring refers to the even indexed elements. In an odd size component, the sizes of the colorings differ by one, and in even size components, they are equal. Across all components, we can first greedily try to color all of them strongly because this yields more size. If any of these colorings contain an occurence of the maximum, then it's good. Otherwise, check if any even sized components, when weakly colored, contain the maximum. This doesn't change the total size. If still no maximum is present, color one odd size component weakly to contain the maximum, thus subtract one from the size.

My code is slightly different because it fixed individual elements (instead of values) as the min, but the idea is the same. Time complexity is $O(NlogN+N\alpha(N))$.