# USACO Plat 2025 Feb

## 1. Min Max Subarrays
Solving for a single array of length $N$:
If $N$ is odd and $N\ne{3}$, then the solution is the maximum in the array (intuition). If $N=3$ then there is a bit of casework.

If $N$ is even, then the second maximum is always achievable if $N\ge{8}$. It helps to look at a worst case scenario: if the max and second max are represented by $1$, and all else by $0$, then (one of the possible) worst case arrays is $01000010$ (any array works if the two ones are the endpoints. Getting a one to be an endpoint requires an operation of type 2. For $N\ge{8}$, there are always enough moves $00$ to waste operations of type 1 in order to use operations of type 2 to get ones to endpoints). Some casework (and proof by induction) will show that the second maximum is the answer for any array of length $\ge{8}$.

$N=1,2$ are trivial cases. So the only remaining two are $N=4$ and $N=6$, which can be brute forced with bitmask dp in $O(N2^N)$.

To solve the problem: first assume that all numbers are distinct (for simplicity). We can iterate over each $i$ and count the number of subarrays of odd length $\ge{5}$ in which this is the maximum, and also count the number of subarrays of even length $\ge{8}$ for which this is the second maximum.

My solution computes the nearest larger (and second nearest larger) values to the left and right of each index, which is done in $O(NlogN)$. It is also worth noting that brute forcing for $N=4$ and $N=6$ takes $O(6N2^6+4N2^4)$ time, which is not negligible for these constraints.