# ABC 388

## A. ?UPC
Read in the string and take the first character, then print out "UPC" after it. Or, because we only need the first character of the string, only read in the first character. This simplifies it down to $O(1)$, whereas reading in the whole string $S$ takes $O(|S|)$ time.

## B. Heavy Snake
Ironically, an $O(NlogN)$ multiset solution is most definitely slower than the brute force $O(ND)$. We go through all values of $k$, then iterate over all snakes $i$ and calculate their weights. It's equal to $T_i\cdot(L_i+K)$. Take the maximum and return it as the answer.

Time complexity: $O(ND)$.

## C. Various Kagamimochi
The given array $a$ is already in sorted order. So for some index $i$, the possible bottom mochi for all kagamimochi with $i$ as the top mochi must form a prefix of the array. This prefix can be found with binary search. Specifically, it's the amount of indices $j$ satisfying $a_j\le{a_i\over{2}}$.

Time complexity is $O(NlogN)$. An $O(N)$ solution with two pointers exists too, but binary search is cleaner imo.

## D. Coming of Age Celebration
Once an alien becomes an adult, he receives stones from all aliens who can give stones, and gives stones to all future aliens until he runs out or there are no more aliens.

We have the following strategy:
 - Maintain the set $S$ of adult aliens who still have stones, as long as when they will run out of stones. When they run out we remove them from $S$. To calculate the answer for alien $i$, we first get a stone from all adults (add $|S|$), and then add this alien itself to $S$.

Time complexity: $O(NlogN)$.

## E. Simultaneous Kagamimochi
Binary search on $K$. The optimal pairing is the first $K$ mochi with the last $K$ mochi. Specifically, we have the pairs $(K,N),(K-1,N-1),\dots(1,N-K+1)$. If all pairs form a valid kagamimochi then this $K$ works. Again, $O(NlogN)$ solution.

## F. Dangerous Sugoroku
A lot of the squares can be skipped over. We really only care about the reachability of the $B$ squares to the left of each $L_i$ and the $B$ squares to the right of each $R_i$. It's because that a jump across the range $[L_i,R_i]$ (i.e. from a square $x$ to a square $y$, $x<L_i\le{R_i}<y$) must be restricted to those squares. $x$ must be in the $B$ squares preceding $L_i$, and $y$ must be in the $B$ squares after $R_i$.

Let $[L_0,R_0]=[0,0]$. By default, square $1$ is reachable so the first square to the right of $R_0$ is reachable. We will propagate reachability dp-fashion all the way to $R_N$, and then check if $N$ is reachable from those squares.

First, calculate the reachability for $L_i$. It's pretty simple: we transition from $R_{i-1}$ to $L_i$. For each reachable square from $R_{i-1}$, we check if can reach any of the $B$ squares to the left of $L_i$ and update accordingly. Checking this is the same thing as asking if we can go from a square $x$ to a square $y$ after some number of jumps, which is the same thing as asking if the summation of $K$ values in the range $[A,B]$ gives a distance of $D=y-x$. The range of possible distances for a fixed $K$ is $[AK,BK]$, so as to maximize the size of the range, the optimal $K$ is the largest range possible, which is equivalent to $\lfloor{D\over{A}}\rfloor$. It remains to check if $\lfloor{D\over{A}}\rfloor{B}\ge{D}$ or not.

Now to calculate the reachability for $R_i$. We have two transitions: we can make exactly one jump from any of the $B$ squares to the left of $L_i$, or transition directly from $R_{i-1}$. Simply put, if one of the $B$ squares reachable from $R_{i-1}$ is at a position greater than $R_i$, then that square is also reachable from $R_i$.

At the end, we check if $N$ is directly reachable from the $B$ squares to the right of $R_N$. This was already covered earlier and the strategy is the same.

Final time complexity is $O(MB^2)$.

## G. Simultaneous Kagamimochi 2
Let $B_i$ be the minimum index that mochi $i$ can be placed on top of. This basically means that mochi $i$ can be paired with all of $[B_i,N]$.

We can solve problem E with this strategy. First binary search on $K$, so we will consider the first $K$ values of $B_i$. If the minimum mochi that mochi $K$ can be paired with is $\le{N}$, then this $K$ is achievable.

First, the answer is at least $2K$. We guarantee that at least one of the $K$ mochi will be able to correctly placed at their $B_i$ value, and so a candidate for the answer for $K$ is $B_i+(K-i)$, assuming all remaining $K-i$ mochi are placed directly after this one. The maximum of these candidates determines the answer for $K$. Therefore, the answer for this $K$ is $\max(\max_{1\le{i}\le{K}}(B_i+K-i),2K)=K+\max(\max_{1\le{i}\le{K}}(B_i-i),K)$. This reduction allows us to compute the maximum of $B_i-i$ with an RMQ (using sparse table/binary lift, in $O(1)$) and this compute the answer in $O(NlogN)$.

Now to answer generic $[L,R]$ queries. Using similar logic, the formula is $\max(\max_{L\le{i}<{L+K}}(B_i+(L+K-1)-i),(L+K-1)+K)=K+L+\max(\max_{L\le{i}<{L+K}}(B_i-i),K)-1$.

Time complexity is $O((N+Q)logN)$.

## Comments:
Did a mock contest on problems C, E, F. I probably would've solved all three by the 50 minute mark (5, 10, 35 minutes) but the $R_{i-1}\rightarrow{R_i}$ transition for F took me an extra two hours.

G was very interesting. I wasn't able to solve that one by myself. D and F were also very nice problems.