# Romanian IOI Selection Test 2014 (Senior?)

## 1. Cannibals
Named "Canibali" on Kilonova (#1974).

I thought it was a simple DAG problem at first but the culmination of more than 6 hours and a lot of new algorithms, and I ended up solving it by a maximum matching algorithm.

It starts with the DAG; draw an edge from cannibal $i$ to $j$ if $i$ can eat $j$. If $i$ and $j$ can eat each other, then a simple cycle would form if we followed the above, so make sure to draw <b>at most one directed edge</b> between every two nodes. This is best done by first sorting all cannibals by their stats.

Let's solve for the case where each cannibal eats at most one other cannibal. In this case, we create two copies of each node: one is reserved for eating other cannibals, and one is reserved for being eaten by other cannibals. Delegate the existing edges accordingly, and the final answer comes from a maximum matching of the resulting bipartite graph.

To go back to eating two cannibals, create a third copy of each cannibal, which is reserved for eating a second cannibal.

After some researching (and a lot of failed thinking on my own) I found that Hopcroft-Karp was a very fast solution for this problem. I tried using a basic version of Kuhn's like many other people who got AC, but it wasn't fast enough, and the optimization that the other people used did not seem trivial/was heuristic? The general time complexity of Hopcroft-Karp is $O(\sqrt{V}E)$ so in this case, it's $O(\sqrt{N}N^2)=O(N^{5\over{2}})$.

I will try to explain my understanding of Hopcroft-Karp here: the downside of Kuhn's is that we have to do an $O(E)$ search $V$ times, as an augmented path can be extended at most $V$ times. With some proof that I didn't read (see wikipedia), it can be shown that as long as the shortest augmented path is extended every time, then the time complexity is at worst $O(\sqrt{V}E)$. We can bfs from all sinks (unmatched vertices) to calculate the shortest augmented path to each vertex, to serve as a layout for the dfs (i.e. Kuhn's) as to ensure that we force the shortest augmented path to be extended. Repeat the bfs/dfs until no more augmented paths can be found.

## 3. ssdj
I can't give a good explanation but here's the main idea:
 - We can try to fix the letter of the bottom right corner. For each cell in each row, calculate the maximum length column extending upwards (starting at that cell) such that all letters in the column are lexicographically smaller than the fixed letter. (check out [CSES - Maximum Building I](https://cses.fi/problemset/task/1147/)). (Basically, we solve independently for each row).
 - This is easier to see if the columns for that row are all drawn out like a bar graph. The fixed letter corresponds to one of these columns and we want to extend the submatrix to the left. A submatrix can exist between a column $i$ and the column containing the fixed letter if the height of all columns between them is strictly higher than the height of column $i$. This is because the cell directly above column $i$ (the top left cell), because it's not contained inside column $i$, that means that it's lex larger than the fixed cell at the bottom right corner. So if all columns are strictly higher than $i$, then that cell must be lex greater than all other letters in the submatrix.
 - To check for this, use monotonic stack ideas. It timed out for me though, so switched to a faster linear algorithm (still in the same spirit).
 - After this we fix the letter of the top left corner and add the two answers together. This double counts submatrices where the top left and bottom right are the same letter, so subtract them as well.
 - Time complexity $O(\Sigma{N^2})$.