# Educational Codeforces Round 167 (#1989)

## D - Smithing Skill

Funny how I didn't pay attention to the constraints and spent an extra half hour of pointless thinking after I actually got the solution, lmao.
($a[i] \le 10^6$, assumed it was $\le 10^9$ because didn't read)

Start off with an $O(NM)$ solution.
If we calculate the difference betwen $a_i$ and $b_i$ for each craft $i$, denoted $D_i$, then it is obvious that you want to use the minimum $D_i$ value possible. <br>
More specifically, you have $C_j$ ingots, and for all crafts that you can do (such that $C_j <= a_i$ for all $i$) find the minimum $D_i$. 

Then you want to use this craft until you have less than the $a_i$ ingots, meaning you can't use that recipe anymore.
Then you will find the new minimum $D_i$ from the pool of available crafts, and repeat the process over and over.

Because it is guaranteed that $a_i \le 10^6$ in the constraints, we can precalculate the answers for all $C_i \le 10^6$. <br>
If $C_i > 10^6$ then it is greater than all $a_i$, thus we have access to all the crafts and can use the minimum $D_i$ until $C_i \le 10^6$. <br>
We precalculate the answers with dp; $dp[i] = dp[i-D_i]+1$ for all $D_i$.


## E - Distance to Different

We should observe that we can divide the array into blocks of the same value (and of varying size). 
As long as we ensure that each block contains different values than its neighbors, then whatever the values the final array $b$ will be the same.

Each block, aside from the first and last ones (which are special cases), will have palindromic values for their $b_i$ (i.e. $1,2,3,2,1$ or $1,2,3,3,2,1$). This means that unless the block is of size $2$, in which case it is the same as having two $1$'s, then
each different block size will have unique $b_i$ values.<br>
The blocks at the beginning and end are only "half palindromes", so they can be of size $2$.

A failed attempt would be the following: <br>
Because blocks of size $2$ are the same as two blocks of size $1$, then we basically need to find the
amount of partitions of $N$ into numbers $x_i$, such that $x_1+x_2+...+x_k = N$, $x_i \ge 1$, and $x_i \ne 2$ for all $i$. (Then we would take care of the special cases for having blocks of size $2$ at the front and back).<br>
This seems like a good candidate for stars and bars, but there's no way to account for $x_i \ne 2$.

So let's move on to dp. Let $dp[i][j]$ be a pair defining the amount of ways to permute elements $1...i$ with $j$ blocks.<br>
The first element of the pair is the amount of ways with last block size $<3$ and the second being $\ge 3$
(this is to avoid the issue with $2$'s).

For the base cases, $dp[0][0].f=1$ and $dp[2][1].f=1$ ($f$ denoting first, $s$ denoting second). The second case comes from the putting the block of $2$ at the very front.

Then, for blocks with sizes $\ge 3$ we can extend them by $1$ element. So $dp[i+1][j].s \mathrel{{+}{=}} dp[i][j].s$. <br>
We can also add a new block of size $3$ (skipping a size of $2$). So $dp[i+3][j+1].s \mathrel{{+}{=}} dp[i][j].f+dp[i][j].s$. <br>
Or we can add a new block of size $1$. $dp[i+1][j+1].f \mathrel{{+}{=}} dp[i][j].f+dp[i][j].s$. <br>
When $i = n-2$, then we can choose to add the block of size $2$ to the back. $dp[n][j+1].f \mathrel{{+}{=}} dp[i][j].f+dp[i][j].s$.

We only have to store $j$ from $0...k$, because we can treat blocks $\ge k$ as just $k$. We only have the value $k$ to make sure that each number appears at least $1$ time.<br>
With this observation, the answer is just $dp[n][k]$, and this runs in $O(NK)$ time.