# Codeforces Round 926 (#1929)

## D. Sasha and a Walk in the City
This is a problem that I tried a long time ago, but never really got good enough until now.

Call the dangerous intersections black nodes, and all other nodes white. Now if we do dp on subtrees, then we can either color the current node white or black. 

Let $dp_i$ be the amount of ways to color the subtree of $i$ such that no black node is an ancestor of another black node. This is because if we have a set that satisfies this property, then it always works as there will never exist a simple path crossing more than $2$ black nodes. $dp_i$ then equals the product of $dp_c$ for children $c$ of $i$ (if we choose to color node $i$ white), plus $1$ if we choose to color node $i$ black and all other nodes white. At the end, only $dp_1$ contributes to the answer.

Or, we can have this node $i$ be an ancestor of another black node $b$. But, a few conditions have to hold. If we color this node black, then we cannot have a third black node $b_2$ outside the subtree of $i$, because then the path $b\rightarrow{i}\rightarrow{b_2}$ is formed. Also, find the child $c$ of $i$ such that node $b$ is in the subtree of $c$. Then we also can't color any nodes in any the subtrees of any children not equal to $c$ because the same path $b\rightarrow{i}\rightarrow{b_2}$ is formed. Finally, consider subtree $c$. There must not be any black node $b_2$ in subtree $c$ that is the ancestor of another black node $b_3$ in $c$, because then there is the path $i\rightarrow{b_2}\rightarrow{b_3}$. We can see that the amount of ways to configure subtree $c$ is precisely $dp_c-1$; $-1$ for the empty set. That deals with the third condition. To deal with the first and second, we only consider subtree $c$, so basically, all other nodes are white. 

So for each node $i$, consider each child $c$, and add $dp_c-1$ to the answer. We have the result in $O(N+M)$.