# CEOI 2018 Day 1

## 2. Global Warming
If $d$ is positive, the the interval is optimally a suffix of the array. If $d$ is negative, then the interval is optimally a prefix of the array. Decreasing a prefix has the same relative effect as increasing the complementary suffix, so we only need to consider positive $d$. Also, the only value of $d$ we need to consider is $d=x$.

From here, one solution is to fix all suffixes (see the [USACO guide](https://usaco.guide/problems/ceoi-2018global-warming/solution)). I didn't think it was possible when I first thought about it, but it turns out that it is.

Let the <b>prefix</b> be the unchanged prefix of the array and the <b>suffix</b> be the modified suffix of the array.

My solution maintains two dp arrays. Let $L_i$ be the default LIS array (minimum value that an increasing subsequence of length $i$ ends on, given that we are still in the prefix) and $M_i$ be the second LIS array (same thing, except that we are in the suffix now). The second array $M_i$ will give our answer.

For each $a_i$, we update the first lis array $L$ as normal (update it with the value $a_i$), and update the second array $M$ the same way (except update it with the value $a_i+x$). These correspond to extending the prefix and suffix, respectively. Now we need to consider transitioning from the prefix to the suffix. Let the position we updated in the first array $L$ be denoted $p$. We'll set $M_p=\min(M_p,L_p)$. This has a complexity of $O(NlogN)$.

my solution is currently the fastest on ojuz by a decent amount (10ms), which is pretty cool.