# CEOI 2012 Day 1

## 3. Sailing Race
Damn there's just so many side cases in this problem. I think implementation was more than five times my thinking.

### K=0
Note how if we don't want intersecting stages, then the range of available harbors forms a diminishing range on the circle. If the current range is $[l,r]$, then the next harbor $m$ that we go to must satisfy $l<m<r$, and after this we get to pick whether our range becomes $[l,m]$ or $[m,r]$ (it will be impossible to go from harbors in one to harbors in the other).

So there's $N^2$ ranges, and $N$ transitions each. Define $dp[i][j][0/1]$ to be the maximum amount of stages given that we start at $i$ and end at $j$. The range $[i,j]$ is ambiguous — it can refer to counterclockwise or clockwise movement from $i$ to $j$ — so the $0/1$ states clear that up. $0$ is ccw, $1$ is cw.

We will build the race in reverse. I'll cover calculating for $dp[i][j][0]$ only because they're pretty much identical. First, $dp[m][j][0]\rightarrow{dp[i][j][0]}$ because we can follow the path $i\rightarrow{m}\rightarrow{j}$. We can also follow the path $i\rightarrow{j}\rightarrow{m}$, thus the transition $dp[j][m][1]\rightarrow{dp[i][j][0]}$.

Now it's helpful to redefine $dp[i][j][0/1]$ to be the maximum amount of stages given that we start at $i$, and end past $j$ (with respect to the direction of movement, ccw or cw). This is calculated by doing simple prefix maxima on our original dp array.

Now we can calculate the answer as $\max(\max_{i=1}^N{dp[i][i+1][0]},\max_{i=1}^N{dp[i][i-1][1]})$. In other words, fix the start harbor $i$ and then take the maximum amount of non-intersecting stages starting from $i$ (which is given by $dp[i][i+1][0]$ or $dp[i][i-1][1]$, following from our prefix maxima).

### K=1
We are permitted to at most one intersection with the first stage. So the strategy is to build stages on one half of the first line, then cross the line, then finish by building stages on the other half.

If we want to cross the first stage again, then all harbors that we visit on the half must be arranged in perfect ccw or cw order. Only then can we cross the first stage again without crossing any other stages. So define an array $dp_2[i][j][0/1]$ representing the maximum number of stages given that we start at $i$, end strictly at $j$, and only visit harbors in ccw/cw order (depending on the $0/1$). This is calculated very similarly to the first dp array.

For $O(N^4)$, we can fix the first stage, then fix the line that crosses the first stage. We can use our dp arrays to easily find the maximum amount of stages satisfying these properties.

Specifically, let the fixed first stage be between $a$ and $b$. The plan is to go from $b$ to a point $c$, then cross the line to a point $d$ on the other side of the first stage. All harbors from $b$ to $c$ must be in ccw/cw order, so that's easy: use $dp_2$. Once we get to $d$, we use $dp$ to get the maximum amount of stages on this half.

Instead of fixing $c$, we can only fix $d$. As to maximize the answer, it's optimal for $d$ to transition from the $c$ with the maximum $dp_2$ value relative to $b$. It's still $O(N^4)$, though.

To speed up to $O(N^3)$, we'll fix $b$ and iterate over all possible values for $a$. All candidates for $d$ lie on one side of $a$, and all candidates for $c$ lie on the other side. So we can choose to iterate over $a$ in such a way that each candidates from $d$ go to $c$, but not the other way around. 

Let the optimal harbors $c$ for all nodes in set $d$ be stored in $S$. Whenever a candidate goes to $c$, then we update all harbors in $S$ in its adjacency list and belonging to set $d$. In essence, we just maintain running maximums on the optimal $c$ for all $d$, and can now find the optimal choice for $d$ in linear time.

The amount of edges is at most $N^2$, which we iterate over at most once for every value of $b$. Also, we brute force $N$ values of $d$ for each pair $(a,b)$. So the time complexity is simply $O(N^3)$.