# Codeforces Round 857

## B. Buying gifts
For each friend, sort all the gifts by price. We can say that for the two gifts that are of the maximum price, the more valuable gift must be $\ge{max(min(a_1,b_1),min(a_2,b_2)\dots{min(a_n,b_n)})}$; otherwise, the remaining gifts cannot be allocated in such a way that they are all less than the maximum.

Second, the answer must come from the following process: for every gift $a_i$, assume it is the maximum described above. The optimal candidate $b_j$ must be the value that is closest to $a_i$ (obviously, $b_j\le{a_i}$ as well). If this value comes from the same department as $a_i$, i.e. $j=i$, then take the second closest value. After this, repeat the process for all $b_i$. This way, we only consider $2N$ pairs at max. Each check takes $O(logN)$ so our overall complexity is $O(NlogN)$.

## C. Music Festival
It may be helpful to compress an album such that it becomes strictly increasing. If we do this, then we can run dp.

We first notice that for a given album $(a, b, c, d)$, if the maximum coolness so far is less than $a$, then we gain $4$ points from all of $a,b,c$, and $d$. Then, the maximum so far becomes $d$. The same logic goes for $b$, $c$, and $d$, with $3$, $2$, and $1$ points gained respectively. Note that the maximum so far will always become $d$, no matter what track we started on.

This means we can do dp. Let $dp[i]$ represent the maximum points so far, given the maximum track is of coolness $i-1$ ($i-1$ so a track of coolness $i$ will give points). Then, we have many total transition states. For a given album of size $S$, we have $S$ different states. This is because following the above logic, an album $(a,b,c,d)$ can transition to max coolness $d$ from all four tracks $a,b,c$, and $d$. So in this case, $dp[d+1]$ = $max(dp[d+1], dp[d]+0, dp[c]+1, dp[b]+2, dp[a]+3)$;

Make sure not to iterate over $MAX_N$ for every test case, because if the max is $2*10^5$ then it will time out. To shorten this, we note there are only at max $K$ event points (all the songs in each album). So with a set storing all event points, it simplifies to $O(KlogK)$.