# CEOI 2014 Day 2

## 1. 007
Compute the length of the shortest path from node $D$ (Null's starting location) to every node, and from node $S$ (007's starting location) to every node.

Let $f(u,v)$ be the length of the shortest path from $u$ to $v$. Since $A$ and $B$ are adjacent, then $|f(S,A)-f(S,B)|\le{1}$.

WLOG assume $f(S,A)\le{f(S,B)}$. There are two cases: $f(S,A)=f(S,B)-1$ and $f(S,A)=f(S,B)$.

### Case 1: $f(S,A)=f(S,B)-1$
Since $A$ and $B$ are adjacent, the shortest path to $B$ from $S$ is an extension of the shortest path to $A$ by one edge. So the optimal route is for 007 to take the shortest path to $A$, then go to $B$ if necessary. Therefore the latest time that 007 can leave is bounded above by $\min(f(D,A)-f(S,A),f(D,B)-f(S,B))$.

### Case 2: $f(S,A)=f(S,B)$
The key difference here is that if 007 wants to get to $B$ in $f(S,B)$ time, then she can't get to $A$ in $f(S,A)$ time. So she should greedily go to the node that Null can get to first. WLOG assume she goes to $A$ first. Then the earliest time she gets to $B$ is at time $f(S,A)+1$. The latest time she can leave is now bounded above by $\min(f(D,A)-f(S,A),f(D,B)-(f(S,A)+1))$.

### Side Case: $f(S,A)=f(S,B),f(D,A)=f(D,B)$
The implication of $f(D,A)=f(D,B)$ is that Null can pick an arbitrary server to go to first.

In this case, the answer is either $f(D,A)-f(S,A)-1$ or $f(D,A)-f(S,A)$. The first is obtained trivially: 007 goes to an arbitrary server (it's just Case 2). In order to attain the second answer, it must be that whichever server Null decides to go to, 007 can always get to that same server without losing any extra time.

So find the length of the longest common prefix of a pair of shortest paths from $S$ to $A$ and $S$ to $B$. It can be done in $O(N)$ by brute forcing the last node of the LCP. Let the length of the LCP be $L_S$. This means: the latest point in time that 007 has to decide whether to commit to $A$ or to $B$ is on her $L_S+1$ th move.

Find the same value for Null, denoted $L_D$. If $L_S\le{L_D}$, then Null picks whether to commit to $A$ or $B$ before 007, and thus 007 can prevent Null from reaching the server. Conversely, if $L_S>L_D$, then 007 has to commit a server without knowledge of Null's decision, and he can simply pick the other and win.

Time complexity: $O(N+M)$.