# CEOI 2009 Day 1

## 2. Harbingers
This problem is CHT. Let $dp_i$ be the answer for city $i$. The transition is $dp_i=\min(dp_j+S_i+(dist_i-dist_j)V_i)$ for all ancestors $j$ of $i$, $dist_i$ being distance from node $1$. We see that the slopes of lines will be $-dist_i$, which are strictly decreasing.

Using basic CHT with stack isn't viable because it is necessary to support rollbacks, which may degenerate to $O(N^2)$.

It's actually not necessary to pop lines from the stack (and thus rollbacks) when adding a new line into CHT. Here is a way to do this.

The problem: given an array of lines (with the invariant of strictly decreasing slopes), the following operations must be supported:
 - Add a line to the back of the array.
 - Remove the line at the back of the array.
 - Query the y-coordinate on the lower hull at an arbitrary x-coordinate.

For each index $i$ in the array we'll find the index $prev_i$: the index of the second-to-last line (equivalently, the line before $i$) in the lower hull, when considering the first $i$ lines.

Note that the following property holds for all $i$: for $j\in[prev_i,i]$, $prev_j\ge{prev_i}$.

So for an index $i$, we can find the closest index $j$, that is $\ge{i}$, of a line on the lower hull. It's just RMQ on the range $[i,N]$: we pick the index $j$ that has the smallest value of $prev_j$, and if there are ties then select the maximum $j$. RMQ can be maintained with a sparse table with $O(logN)$ updates per node, and queries in $O(1)$. Let's call this value of $j$ as $r_i$.

Then we can find the closest index $<i$ that is on the hull, as it is simply $prev_j$. Refer to it as $l_i$. Since for each index we know the two lines closest to it, then we can essentially just treat all lines not on the convex hull as pointers to the next line on the hull.

With these simplifications, the standard binary search method for querying an x-coordinate can be implemented in $O(logN)$. Inserting a line $i$ requires finding the value of $prev_i$: this can also be done with binary search in $O(logN)$. Updating RMQ takes $O(logN)$.

Deleting the line at the back of the array takes $O(1)$, with no extra steps needed (it is not necessary to update RMQ, although $O(logN)$ deletion is still ok).

Time complexity: $O(NlogN)$.