# CF Round 1022 (#2108)

## D. Needle in a Numstack
The properties tell us that both $A$ and $B$ are periodic, with period $K$. Each period contains exactly ne occurence of every number between $1$ and $K$.

The algorithm is: find the maximum possible length of $A$ and the max possible length of $B$. If $\max|A|=N-\max|B|$ then the solution is unique, otherwise there are multiple solutions.

To calculate the max length of $A$: the first $K$ letters of $C$ form the period of $A$ (let it be $P_A$). Find any index in this period that has a different value in a future (i.e. the last) period. Then use this index to binary search on the first period that is different from $P_A$. We can brute force all indices in this period to figure out the first index in the period that differs from the corresponding index in $P_A$, and thus get $\max|A|$.

If $\max|A|=N-K$, then $B$ is uniquely determined as having length $K$. Otherwise, look at the last $K$ letters of $C$ which must form $P_B$, the period of $B$. If $\max|A|=N-\max|B|$, then the value at index $\max|A|$ must differ from the corresponding index in $P_B$. Otherwise, there are multiple solutions.

This takes $O(4K+log_2{N\over{K}})$ queries and $O(K+log{N\over{K}})$ time.

## E. Spruce Dispute
This problem is an extension of [CF Connecting Universities](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/700/B). From that problem, it is asserted there always exists an optimal coloring where each edge (connecting $i$ and $par_i$) is used in the maximum amount of paths possible (being $\min(sz_i,N-sz_i))$. This means that each subtree has the maximum amount of distinct colors — if a subtree has duplicate colors, then it must already contain at least one occurence of each color.

The construction is as follows: assuming the edge has been removed, we now have $N-1$ nodes and $N-1\over{2}$ colors. Assign colors to nodes based on the DFS traversal. The colors are assigned in the order $1,2,\dots,{{N-1}\over{2}},1,2,...{{N-1}\over{2}}$ which satisfies the aforementioned property as it assigns as many distinct colors as possible to a subtree.

To figure out which edge to remove: it must be an edge connecting a leaf to its parent. At most one path passes through each of these edges, while at least one path passes through every other edge. So removing a leaf edge has the minimal impact. To figure out which leaf edge to remove, do subtree dp.

So in total, the time complexity is $O(N)$.