# Codeforces Round 1005 (#2069)

## E. Mycraft Sand Sort
$c'=c$. Otherwise, the first column will be wrong.

Let the set of the currently visible blocks at some column $i$ be $S_i$. As we iterate over the columns from left to right, we remove exactly one block from $S_i$ to get to set $S_{i+1}$.

The order of colors in each $S_i$ will always be the same, no matter which blocks are in the set. So disregard the blocks. In this sense, redefine $S_i$ to contain the colors of the blocks instead of the blocks themselves. For each $S_i$, we can compute the amount of different positions that we can remove in order to ensure that $S_i$ transforms into $S_{i+1}$. The answer is the product of all values.

We can find one valid removal position by simply simulating with the given array $p$. The block $x$ satisfying $p_x=i$ will be removed after column $i$, so we can just find out which color it corresponds to in $S_i$. This gives us one position, which will be denoted $D$.

Split $S_i$ into same-color components. Formally, two elements in $S_i$ are in the same component if their colors are the same and all elements between them also have the same color. We can say that an element is a valid candidate for removal if and only if it is in the same component as $D$ in $S_i$. So the amount of candidates is the size of the component of $D$. The product of all these sizes gives the answer.

Store the components with DSU. Since we remove block $D$ after operation $i$, then $D-1$ and $D+1$ will be adjacent in $S_{i+1}$, so merge their components together.

The runtime is generally $O(NlogN)$ from a binary search to find the value of $D$, but a double linked list can reduce it down to the DSU-dominated complexity of $O(N\alpha(N))$.