# 20th JOI Final Round

## 4. Robot
For a given node, there are two conditions for a road to become distinct: either we recolor this road or we recolor all other roads that have the same color. I'll refer to these as the <i>self</i> and the <i>complement</i>. Because edges can be colored anything from $1$ to $M$, that means that all edges can be given a distinct color. So if we color the edge itself, we can ensure it remains distinct from all other edges. 

The base of the algorithm will be Dijkstra, but we need to sort out some details to ensure that costs are calculated correctly. There are a couple cases ($S$ is self, $C$ is complement):<br>
1) $S\rightarrow{C}$ (the robot just came from an edge that we colored distinctly, and we want to traverse the next edge by coloring its complement)
2) $S\rightarrow{S}$ (we colored the last edge with a distinct color and want to do the same with this edge)
3) $C\rightarrow{C}$
4) $C\rightarrow{S}$

If we store two distance values for each node, one for $S$, and one for $C$, then we can very easily perform these transitions. The only problematic case is $S\rightarrow{C}$ because if the next edge is the same color as the previous, then it double-counts the weight of the previous edge. We can deal with the case by separately storing $T_{i,j}$ (node $i$ and color $j$; transition values). $T_{i,j}$ = $min(S_k,C_k)$ where $k$ is adjacent to $i$ by an edge of color $j$ — the double-counted edge is subtracted out, so the problem is reduced to finding $S\rightarrow{C}$ when the edge colors are different. So, we can use $T\rightarrow{C}$ to take care of if the next edge is the same color as the previous, and $S\rightarrow{C}$ if they are different. It should be clear that checking if they're different is still time consuming, so we can instead just blindly push $S\rightarrow{C}$ at every node no matter the relationship of the edge colors, because we know that when the edge colors are the same, $T\rightarrow{C}$ will always produce a smaller cost than $S\rightarrow{C}$, and thus will always overwrite it. As a side note, this means that $S$ and $C$ push to the same values so we can just combine them into one. So treating $min(S,C)$ and $T$ as separate dp states for every node, we can achieve a runtime of $O((N+M)log(N+M))$.