# Codeforces Round 984 (#2036)

## G. Library of Magic
Assume WLOG that $N$ is a power of $2$ minus $1$, and $b=log_2(N+1)$.

The range $[1,N]=[1,2^b-1]$ can be subdivided into $[1,2^{b-1}-1]$ and $[2^{b-1},2^b-1]$. The first range corresponds to all numbers that have the $b-1$ th bit off, and the second range has the $b-1$ th bit on.

Query the second range; suppose its result is $x$. If the $b-1$ th bit of $x$ is on, then there are either one or three numbers inside the second range. If it's off, then there are either zero (if $x=0$) or two (if $x\ne{0}$) numbers inside that range.

If the $b-1$ th bit of $x$ is on, then we can query the range $[x,x]$ to determine whether there's one or three numbers inside the second range. If the result of that query is equal to $x$, then we have found one number. The remaining two numbers must be present in the first range, and we can reduce our search space to the first range and apply a similar recursive solution on the $b-2$ nd bit. Otherwise, we reduce our search space to the second range because all numbers are in the second range.

Otherwise, if $x=0$, then there's zero numbers in the second range, so all remaining numbers must be present in the first range.

Otherwise, if $x\ne{0}$, then there's two numbers in this range, so the third number must be present in the first range. We can easily find it by querying the first range. Then, the other two numbers must be in this second range.

This recursive process uses at most $2log_2N+3$ queries and runs in $O(logN)$.
