# Codeforces Round 996 (#2055)

## A. Two Frogs
It's like [CF 1942E - Farm Game](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1942/E). If the distance between Alice and Bob is odd, then Alice wins, and otherwise she loses. The reason for this is that if the distance is even, then the player currently moving wins; they can get the distance to odd and the next player must get it back to even after their move. The first player can always move towards the second player until the second player can't move anymore, so the first player wins. Basically, $O(1)$ per test case.

## B. Crafting
If we make one unit of some material $a$, then we can't make a unit of another material $b$. It's clear that crafting $b$ uses up that one unit of $a$ we made earlier. So we can only make one type of material. If we are missing more than one type of material, then it's impossible. Now we check if crafting $b_i-a_i$ units of the missing material $i$ will cause any other materials to dip below their $b$. Just find the minimum $a_j-b_j$ ($j\ne{i}$) and check if it's greater than or equal to $b_i-a_i$.

Time complexity: $O(N)$.

## C. The Trail
For some fixed $x$, a greedy construction can be done starting from either endpoint of the trail. It's only left to pick such an $x$ that equates all row and column sums.

Picking $x=0$ will work. Greedily filling in the unknown cells maintains that the sum of all rows, and columns (except $M$) have zero sum. So we have to verify that column $M$ has zero sum as well.

The sum of all rows (so the entire grid) is zero, and the sum of all column except $M$ is zero, so column $M$ also has a zero sum.

Time complexity: $O(NM)$.

## D. Scarecrow
The first scarecrow moves to position $0$ to meet the crow. After this, each scarecrow will scare the crow for a specific amount of time. We will iterate over each scarecrow to find the maximum distance the crow can travel until it becomes scared by this scarecrow instead of the previous scarecrow.

the above statement is very misleading, but it is just to maximize the position of the crow at any given time. So it's actually to find the earliest time that each scarecrow gets to be the one scaring the crow (I think)

Let's assume we're calculating for scarecrow $i$. If the earliest time the previous scarecrow reached the crow was $t$, then let the crow at that time currently be at position $x$. Let the position of scarecrow $i$ be $p$.

Scarecrow $i$ can currently be in the range $[p-t,p+t]$. If $p\ge{x}\ge{p-t}$, then this scarecrow can have moved to position $x$ within those $t$ seconds, and now the crow should instantly teleport to position $x+k$. The time is still $t$.

If $x<p-t$, then the previous scarecrow and this scarecrow should move towards each other to minimize the time until scarecrow $i$ gets the crow. They will meet at the midpoint of $p-t$ and $x$. This will be after an extra $((p-t)-x)/2$ seconds, so the new position of the crow is $(p-t+x)/2+k$.

If $x>p$, then scarecrow $i$ should move forwards to meet the crow. The farthest it can move will be $\min(p+t,x)$, so the new position of the crow is $\min(p+t,x)+k$. This incurs no extra time.

Continue doing this until the crow reaches a position greater than or equal to $l$. In my code, I scale all the values by $2$ to avoid dealing with decimals. Also, the time complexity of this solution is $O(N)$.

## Comments:
My first virtual ok. I solved A in B in 5 minutes and got stuck on C for an hour and a half, and gave up before trying D and solving it in literally 16 minutes. Definitely need to work on constructive problems.

Problem C: hard