# IOI 2011 Day 1

https://oj.uz/problem/view/IOI11_garden

## 1. Tropical Garden
Yeah yeah yeah this got put into Silver "<i>Intro</i> to Functional Graphs". I do think that it being rated Very Hard underrates it a bit considering the massive amount of time I spent on the implementation. Though, the thought process isn't terribly difficult. We should note that there are two states for each node: if you just came from the most beautiful path or not. Using this we can simulate the path of the group from any given node, from either state.

Importantly, when at a given node and state there is only one road that you can take. So we can separately find the distances from all nodes to both states of node $P$ with dfs, and then check if the distances are equal to $K$ in $O(N)$ time per query.

But this isn't the full answer. Specifically, if there is a cycle containing either state of node $P$, then there is the option to continuously traverse the cycle after reaching node $P$. More formally, if the length of the cycle is $L$ and the distance from node $P$ to some other node is $L_2$, then the path works if $(K-L_2)\%L = 0$. Two dfs's works to check if either state of $P$ is in a cycle (and retrieve the length of the cycle if it exists). The time complexity is $O(NQ)$.

## 2. Race
Consider the set of weighted distances of all nodes in the subtree of $i$ to $i$. We maintain a map for $i$ storing the minimum unweighted distance for each weighted distance. Small to large merging can be used to used to efficiently maintain these maps, and when merging we can obviously check to see, for each weighted distance, if a complementary weighted distance summing to $K$ exists.

Time complexity: $O(Nlog^2N)$.

## 3. Rice Hub
If the range of rice fields we want to collect from $[l,r]$, then we can easily figure out the optimal location of a rice hub: the median. We can therefore calculate the minimum cost to collect from $[l,r]$.

For the full solution, find the largest $r$ for each $l$ with two pointers. This runs in $O(N)$.

# IOI 2011 Day 2

https://oj.uz/problem/view/IOI11_crocodile

## 1. Crocodile's Underground City

Simplifying the problem down, we must find a DAG such that the outdegree of every non-exit node is $2$ (unless there is some isolated cycle, but without loss of generality assume there isn't one). We want to find a valid DAG such that the longest path is minimum.

It turns out we can do this with a modification of Dijkstra. We start from the exit nodes, and we define $dist[i]$ as the minimum longest path starting from $i$ in a valid DAG. For a given node $i$, $dist[i]$ is the second-smallest $dist[j]+$ (edge weight between $i$ and $j$) for all nodes $j$ adjacent to $i$, so store two minimums for each $i$ and update accordingly. In total, it takes $O(N+MlogN)$.

An interesting caveat (oj.uz subtask 3 test case 22):

Normal Dijkstra uses a line like: <i>if (cur.f != dist[cur.s]) {continue;}</i><br>
But this line may run twice if the two minimums are the same, meaning that one of its children may be updated twice from the same node, which means there are two directed edges connecting the same pair of nodes, which doesn't follow the constraints of the escape plan. So we make sure to only consider each node only one time with a visited array.