# ARC 188

## C. Honest or Liar or Confused
Assume there are no confused villagers. If $C_i=0$, then $A_i$ and $B_i$ are either both honest or both liars, and are different if $C_i=1$.

Directed edges from $A_i$ to $B_i$ (with weight $C_i$) can be drawn and it is left to check whether a two-color coloring of the graph exists satisfying all edges (if an edge has weight $0$, its endpoints have the same color).

If villager $i$ is confused, then all outgoing edges from $i$ should have their weights inverted. Nevertheless, when considering the set of edges with initial node $i$, the terminal nodes of all weight $0$ edges should have the same color, and the terminal nodes of all weight $1$ edges should have the same color (that is opposite to the weight $0$ ones). This property holds regardless of if $i$ is confused, so we can do the following:
 - Find any coloring that satisfies the above property for each node. If no coloring exists then it's impossible.
 - For each node, find a color $c$ based on the color of terminal nodes of all outgoing edges (so $c$ should align with colors of terminal nodes of weight $0$ edges, and differ from those of weight $1$ edges).
 - This villager is confused iff $c$ does not match the color of this node.

The following is how to find the initial coloring. Initially, all nodes are uncolored. To do this, here is an operation on node $i$ henceforth referred to as "processing" $i$:
 - (for reference) $j$ is adjacent to $i$ if the edge $i\rightarrow{j}$ exists.
 - Color all nodes adjacent to $i$ according to the property (and with respect to the preexisting colors of those nodes). That is, if some node is already colored, then don't change it's color. As long as at least one adjacent node is colored, then the colors of all adjacent nodes can be uniquely determined. If no adjacent nodes are colored, then pick an arbitrary coloring from the two available options.
 - Let the set of all nodes adjacent to $i$ be $S$. For any unprocessed nodes $x$ pointing to some node in $S$, process $x$ (since that node is adjacent to $x$, then we can uniquely determine the colors of all nodes adjacent to $x$).

This is implemented with BFS.

To find the coloring, iterate over all nodes $i$ and process $i$ if it hasn't been processed yet.
 - When we process $i$, then this means that no nodes adjacent to $i$ have been colored yet, so the coloring of these nodes is not uniquely determined — there's two possible colorings, but we claim that we can pick an arbitrary one irrespective of the colorings of all previous nodes. The reason this works is because if all nodes adjacent to $i$ are uncolored, then the colors of these nodes are independently determined in relation to the set of already colored nodes. Therefore, it's safe to assign an arbitrary coloring.

At the end of this process, all nodes (except those with indegree $0$) will have colors, because nodes with indegree $0$ can be assigned any color.

Complexity: $O(N+M)$.