# ARC 192

## B. Fennec VS. Snuke 2
Fennec always wins when $N=1$, and Snuke always wins when $N=2$. The goal is to not be the player that adds the second to last element into $S$.

Let the "discard" pile refer to all $i\in{S}$ and the "active" pile refer to all $i\notin{S}$. We see that it is only necessary to consider the parity of the sum of all $A_i$ (for all $i$ in the discard pile). For future reference, to "draw" from a pile is to select an index in that pile.

The usefulness of the discard pile is as follows: suppose selecting an index in the active pile guarantees a loss for the player with the current turn (assume it's Fennec). If the discard pile has odd size, then Fennec is the last person to draw from the discard and thus Snuke is forced to draw first from the active pile, thus Fennec wins.

For all $i$ in the active pile, we are also concerned only with the parity of $A_i$. If $A_i$ is odd, then selecting $i$ will not change the parity of the discard pile, and if $A_i$ is even, then selecting $i$ changes the parity of the discard pile.

Initially, the active pile is the set $\set{1,2,\dots,N}$. The person who adds the $N-1$ th element to $S$ always loses. So let $O$ be the number of odd $A_i$ (for $i\in[1,N]$), and $E$ be the number of even $A_i$.

### If $E$ and $O$ are both even, then Snuke wins.
 - Whatever pile Fennec draws from, Snuke will draw from the same pile. During Fennec's turn, the discard pile will also always have even size. So Fennec adds the $N-1$ th element to $S$, and therefore loses.

### Consequently, Fennec wins if $E$ is even and $O$ is odd.
 - Fennec draws from the odd pile first turn and the situation is reduced to the above case.

### If $E$ and $O$ are both odd, then Fennec wins.
 - If $O$ has size $1$, then the optimal strategy is to draw from $O$ first turn, and force Snuke to draw from $E$. Now the discard pile has odd size, and both $E$ and $O$ are even. Fennec can waste his turn, reducing the case to the first one.
  - If $O$ does not have size $1$, Fennec should draw from $E$ first. Snuke must draw from $E$: if Snuke wastes his turn with the discard pile, then it's reduced to case 2, and if Snuke draws from $O$, Fennec wastes his turn to reduce it to case 1. Fennec will be the last to draw from $E$, forcing Snuke to draw from $O$ or waste his turn, for which Fennec can then reduce to one of the above cases.

### If $E$ is odd and $O$ is even, Snuke wins.
 - Fennec is forced to reduce to the odd-odd case or the even-even case, where Snuke wins, <b>except when $N=3$</b>.

### More
 - As stated earlier, Fennec wins when $N=1$ and Snuke wins when $N=2$. Fennec wins when $N=3$ if and only if $O>0$.

Complexity: $O(N)$.