# Codeforces Round 1004 (#2065)

## A. Skibidus and Amog'u
Delete the last two characters from the string, and add "i" to the end. That is the new string.

Time complexity: $O(|W|)$.

## B. Skibidus and Ohio
If we can make just one operation in the initial string, then we can reduce the string to have size $1$. Set the remaining character to match with either the character to the left or the right, and continue deleting until the string has size $1$. If no deletions are possible from the beginning, then the answer is just $|S|$. It runs in $O(|S|)$ as well.

## C1. Skibidus and Fanum Tax (easy version)
For the easy version, dp is suitable, but we can also see that the following strategy works:
 - For $a_1$, always use the operation if it decreases the value of $a_1$.
 - For $a_i$ ($2\le{i}\le{N})$, always use the operation if it is a better candidate for $a_i$. Formally, if $a_i\ge{a_{i-1}}$, use the operation if it decreases $a_i$ but still satifies $a_i\ge{a_{i-1}}$. And if $a_i<a_{i-1}$, then use the operation if it makes $a_i\ge{a_{i-1}}$.

At the very end, we check if the final array is non-decreasing and return it. This runs in $O(NM)$.

## C2. Skibidus and Fanum Tax (hard version)
The strategy from above is still valid. We want to find the best candidate of $b_j$ as to satisfy $b_j-a_i\ge{a_{i-1}}$, but also to minimize $b_j-a_i$ so there is more freedom for future elements. So, rearranging the equation, the best candidate for $b_j$ is the smallest value of $b_j$ that is $\ge{a_i+a_{i-1}}$. Sort all $b$ and binary search.

The time complexity now becomes $O(NlogM)$.

## D. Skibidus and Sigma
For an array $b$ of length $M$, the score is more easily rephrased as $\sum_{i=1}^M(i\cdot{b_i})$. Let this score be $C_b$.

Let $S_i$ be the sum of array $i$. If array $i$ is in position $j$ in the final permutation, then the score for $i$ is $C_i+S_i(N-j+1)$. Only the $S_i$ is variable, so we can drop the $C_i$ terms. Then we can see that to maximize the score, we should put arrays with higher $S_i$ earlier in the permutation. So after calculating sums, sorting them, then following through with the above formula, we get the maximum sum in $O(NMlogN)$.

## E. Skibidus and Rizz
WLOG assume $N\ge{M}$. The optimal string is a block of $K$ zeroes (to satisfy the condition), followed by alternating ones and zeros (so the count of zeroes and ones increases at the same rate, meaning the difference won't change), and finally a block of the excess ones at the end.

If $N-K>M$, then we'll run out of zeroes to alternate with ones. If $K>N$, then we can't even build the initial block. These are the only two fail cases, and otherwise we follow the above procedure to get the answer, in $O(N+M)$.

## F. Skibidus and Slay
A path is a good path for $i$ if $i$ is the majority. WLOG assume $i=1$. If some path is a good path, then there always exists a good subarray of that path of the form $[1,x,1]$ or $[1,1]$ for any other integer $x$. So we only need to consider groups of three adjacent vertices, which is done with a simple dfs in $O(N)$.

Some intuition on why the path is always reducible comes from a dp. Transform all occurences of $i$ to have weight $1$ and all others to have weight $-1$, then do a dfs in the tree; if there exists a path between two occurences of $i$ with a positive sum of vertices, then $i$ is the majority. As for transitions, it's clear that at any point we can increase the length of an existing path/start a new path, or end a path if the vertex sum is positive. If the vertex sum for a path ending at some node $j$ ($a_j=i$) is $\le{0}$, then that path is useless and we can discard it. So we can say for our dp that any good path must contain exactly two occurences of $i$ (at its endpoints), which means that the path is either $[i,x,i]$ or $[i,i]$.

## G. Skibidus and Capping
$lcm(a,b)={ab\over{gcd(a,b)}}$. So decompose $a$ and $b$ into their prime factors. $lcm(a,b)$ must have exactly two prime factors, so we can just run casework.
 - If for a pair $(i,j)$, $a_i=a_j$ and $a_i$ is semiprime, then $(i,j)$ is valid.
 - If $a_i$ is prime and $a_j$ is a prime multiple of $a_i$, then it's valid.
 - If $a_i$ and $a_j$ are primes, then it's valid.

After precalculating primes, running the algorithm takes a total of $O(NlogN)$ time.

## H. Bro Thinks He's Him
The dp required is pretty interesting. We will go through every pair $(i,j)$ such that $s_i\ne{s_j}$, meaning that this pair contributes $1$ to any subsequences containing $i$ and $j$ in adjacent order. After fixing $i$ and $j$, there are $2^{i-1}\cdot{2^{n-j}}$ valid subsequences containing these in adjacent order.

We can run some simple dp to calculate the answer. Let $cnt[i][j=0/1]$ be the sum of all $2^k$ for indices $k<i$ satisfying $s_k=j$. WLOG assume $s_i=0$. Then we add $cnt[i][1]\cdot{2^{n-i}}$ to the answer and update $cnt[i+1][0]$ as $cnt[i][0]+2^{i-1}$. Or instead, we can add $2^i$ into a Fenwick tree and then query a prefix sum to retrieve the value of $cnt[i+1][0]$.

For queries, assume WLOG that the index being updated, $i$, satisfies $s_i=0$. First, we want to recalculate this value, by adding $(cnt[i][0]-cnt[i][1])\cdot{2^{n-i}}$ to the answer. Also, we want to subtract $2^{i-1}$ from all future $cnt[j][0]$ ($j>i$) and add $2^{i-1}$ to all future $cnt[j][1]$. Expressing $cnt$ as a prefix sum on a Fenwick tree makes it very easy, and this can all be updated in $O(logN)$.

Next, for $j>i$ and $s_j\ne{s_i}$, after we invert $s_i$ then $s_j$ can no longer pair with it. So for all these indices, we subtract $2^{n-j}\cdot{2^{i-1}}$ from the answer. Same goes for indices $j$ satisfying $s_j=s_i$; we'll add $2^{n-j}\cdot{2^{i-1}}$ to the answer. Maintaining two more suffix sum Fenwick trees to find the sum of all $2^{n-j}$ is very helpful for this, and so the time complexity ends up being $O((N+Q)logN)$.

## Comments:
Off day today, but at least got some practice doing a mock contest. I basically sit down and time myself, and don't leave the area (usually I would solve problems by looking at them and thinking about them while doing other stuff). (this refers to problems G and H)

Imo best problem is problem F, worst problem is problem G