# Codeforces Round 698

## C. Nezzar and Symmetric Array
This problem is quite difficult and I don't see why it's only $1700$, but I also just suck at these constructive algorithms. It's probably also because I didn't expect the solution to involve actually constructing the array.

Call $f(x)$ the sum of absolute differences for an integer $x$. $f(x)=f(-x)$, so we can reduce the problem to only positive integers by taking only one number from every pair of duplicate $d_i$ (this new array is denoted $v_i$). Also, this means that if there are less than $2$ copies of every distinct $d_i$ value, then there is no solution. And all $d_i$ must be even, so if there is an odd $d_i$ then return "NO".

It is also worth noting that when finding the absolute difference for an integer $b$ with two integers $a$ and $-a$, if $b>a$ then $|b-a|+|b-(-a)| = 2b$, and otherwise $2a$. When generalizing this, a larger $x$ produces a larger $f(x)$. So the relative order of $v_i$ values gives the relative order of $a_i$ values (if $v_i>v_j$, then $a_i>a_j$). Because all $a_i$ are distinct, $2b>2a$ and thus $v_i$ must contain all distinct integers as well.

So now $v_i$ is sorted and pairwise distinct. We can now say that because $v_N$ is the largest integer, then $v_N=2Na_N$ following from the aforementioned property. Return "NO" if $v_N$ is not divisible by $2N$; otherwise, we have the value of $a_N$.

Following from the $2a/2b$ property, we can say that $v_i=2i(a_i)+{\sum_{j=i+1}^{n}2a_j}$. So the difference between adjacent elements $v_i$ and $v_i+1$ is $2i(a_{i+1}-a_i)$. We can find $2(N-1)(a_N-a_{N-1})$ this way, and because we know $a_N$, can deduce the value of $a_{N-1}$. Continue like this to construct $a$. And if we ever get a non-positive integer in $a$, then the answer should be "NO". The final time complexity is $O(N)$.