# Codeforces Round 549 (#1142)

## B. Lynyrd Skynyrd
Since each number appears exactly once in the permutation, given the first index in the subsequence we will know the cyclic shift of the permutation. Given the first index, we can find the minimum last index in a valid subsequence starting from this first index. Consider the set of all of these ranges, and a query $i$ works if any of these ranges are contained inside $[l_i,r_i]$ (which is done with suffix minimums or offline binary search).

It remains to find out how to compute that minimum last index. This is solved through binary lifting: let $jump[i][k]$ be the minimum value of the $2^k$ element in a subsequence starting from $i$. We can then find that index in $O(logN)$ for each start index. So, $O(MlogM+N+Q)$ total complexity. For some reason, my $O(MlogM+QlogM+N)$ solution (using binary search to solve queries) ran a decent amount faster.

## C. U2
For each equation $y=x^2+cx+d$, we can solve for $c$ and $d$. The equation turns out to $d=-cx+(y-x^2)$; we can find this line for each point $(x_i,y_i)$ (denote the line $f_i$). Basically, with $c$ on the x-axis and $d$ on the y-axis, the line represents all possible values of $c$ and $d$ that satisfy the original equation.

So clearly, the intersection of two (or more) lines represents a valid parabola. We now have to determine whether a point lies above the parabola. Let the intersection point be $(c,d)$. If there exists some line $f_i$ above $(c,d)$ (such that $f_i(c)>d$), then point $i$ must lie above the parabola. It's clear that point $i$ needs a larger $d$ value to satisfy the $y=x^2+cx+d$ equation, so because the intersection point has a smaller $d$ value than it needs, then $i$ will be above the parabola (i.e. $y>x^2+cx+d$).

In other words, the goal is to find the number of distinct intersection points such that no line lies above the intersection point. So only intersections with the line with the highest y-value count. The line with the highest y-value must change at every intersection point (a biconditional), so the problem is reduced to finding the number of lines that have the highest y-value at any point, minus one.

After some research, I found that the above is describing the upper envelope of the set of lines, and the goal is to find the number of segments forming the upper envelope. This can be solved with a convex hull: map each line $y=ax+b$ to the point $(a,b)$, and find the convex hull for the resulting set of points (such that no two edges are collinear, so use graham scan). The number of edges in the upper convex hull gives the answer because we're looking for the upper envelope.

Time complexity: $O(NlogN)$.