# Baltic OI 2016 Day 1

## 1. Bosses
The optimal salary for a node is the sum of all its children's salaries plus one, which turns out to be the subtree size. So we want to minimize the sum of all subtree sizes, which is the exact same as the sum of all the depths of each node.

Fix each node as the root, and then bfs from that root to find a spanning tree in the graph. We find the shortest paths to the root, which guarantees that we find a spanning tree with minimum sum of depths. We take the minimum answer across all roots.

Time complexity: $O(NK)$.

## 2. Park
Quite an ingenious solution. Unfortunately, I couldn't figure it out myself. still waiting on usaco results

Draw an edge between the centers of every two circles $i$ and $j$, with the weight being $dist((x_i,y_i),(x_j,y_j))-r_i-r_j$; i.e, the maximum radius of a person that can pass between these circles. Also do the same between each circle and the four borders (in which case the weight is the shortest distance from the center to the border, minus $r_i$).

It's pretty clear that a person $i$ can pass through all edges with weight $\ge{r_i}$. But to solve the problem, we need to consider the opposite. He can't pass through any edges with weight $<r_i$.

So, only place down the subset of edges/line segment with weight $<r_i$. If this person wants to get to some exit, then it's possible if and only if there exists some path from his exit to that exit that doesn't intersect any of the line segments.

All line segments have endpoints at some tree's center (or a border). So we can easily verify the above by creating connected components of line segments, and checking the connectivity of the borders to each other. If they're connected, then there must exist a chain of line segments from one border to the other. This means that anything on one side of that chain of line segments can't cross to the other side. This can be done with DSU.

To extend to $M$ queries, just process queries and edges in increasing order or radii. Time complexity: $O(N^2logN^2+MlogM)$.

# BOI 2016 Day 2

## 3. Swap
Construct the binary tree corresponding to swaps.

Let $dp[i][j]$ denote the following:
 - After operation $i-1$, the value of $a_i$ is $j$. There are only $O(logN)$ such values of $j$, so it is ok.
 - $dp[i][j]$ stores whether we should perform operations $i$ and/or $i+1$ (i.e. swap with left and/or right children), as to get the lex min sequence when only considering the subtree of $i$.

Since there are only four possible swap combinations, we can evaluate $dp[i][j]$ in $O(\text{size of subtree of i})$ time. Across all $(i,j)$, this takes $O(logN)\cdot{O(NlogN)}=O(Nlog^2N)$.