# Codeforces Round 881 (#1843)

## F1. Omsk Metro (simple version)
Find the minimum and maximum subsegment sum ($mn_i$ and $mx_i$) on the path from $i$ to the root for all $i$, which is done with Kadane's algorithm. There exists a subsegment of value $k$ from $i$ to the root if and only if $mn_i\le{k}\le{mx_i}$, so queries can be answered in $O(1)$, for a total time complexity of $O(N)$.

## F2. Omsk Metro (hard version)
Official editorial has a better solution.

This problem is solved with binary lifting. We can use prefix sums to find the minimum and maximum subsegment sums.

So let $ps_i$ be the sum of values ($v_i$) from $i$ to the root. $mn_{k,i}$ stores the minimum prefix sum value from $i$ to its $2^k-1$ th ancestor. $mx_{k,i}$ is defined similarly. Finally, let $mxseg_{k,i}$ be the maximum subsegment sum contained in the range from $i$ to its $2^k-1$ th ancestor, and $mnseg_{k,i}$ be the mininimum segment sum. Also define the functions $mn(a,b),mx(a,b),mxseg(a,b),mnseg(a,b)$ which return the same values, but between any two arbitrary nodes $a$ and $b$.

$mxseg_{k,i}$ is the only computation of difficulty. First, we can inherit from the children, so $mxseg_{k,i}=\max(mxseg_{k-1,i},mxseg_{k-1,anc(2^{k-1},i)})$ where $anc(k,i)$ returns the $k$ th ancestor of $i$. Next, we can create a new segment. The start of the segment must be present in the range $[i,anc(2^{k-1}-1,i)]$, and the end must be present in the range $[anc(2^{k-1},i),anc(2^k-1,i)]$; otherwise, it would have been inherited from the children. So $mxseg_{k,i}=mx(i,anc(2^{k-1}-1,i))-mn(anc(2^{k-1},i),anc(2^k,i))$ just like prefix sums.

We know that a query pair $(a,b)$ works if $mnseg(a,b)\le{k}\le{mxseg(a,b)}$. I now describe how to compute $mxseg(a,b)$; $mnseg(a,b)$ is computed almost identically. Let $l=lca(a,b)$. Either the path wraps around the LCA, or it doesn't. If it wraps around, then a candidate for the answer is $mx(a,l)+mx(b,l)-2\cdot{ps_l}+v_l$ which can be easily computed with the binary lift arrays from earlier.

Otherwise, the our candidate is $\max(mxseg(a,l),mxseg(b,l))$. Computing $mxseg(a,l)$ can be done by breaking up the segment $[a,l]$ into two ranges, just like a sparse table. 

So if our two ranges are, for example, $[a,b]$ and $[c,d]$, then we get the maximum subsegment sum when the two endpoints are both in $[a,b]$, or when they're both in $[c,d]$. We're missing a case, which is when the first endpoint is in $[a,c]$ and the second is in $[c,d]$. That can be computed simply as $mx(a,c)-mn(c,anc(1,d))$.

Now the problem is solved in $O(NlogN)$.