# IOI 2007 Day 2

## 3. Training
Let's find a cycle in the graph, fix a start point $S$, and iterate through the cycle from $S$. While doing this, maintain the parity of two variables: the distance to $S$ and the length of the path. The cycle is an even cycle iff after using the last non-tree edge, these two parities are the same. This simulation gives the following results:
 - Immediately we see that all edges $i$ with odd $dist(A_i,B_i)$ (where $dist(X,Y)$ is the distance between $X$ and $Y$ in the tree) must be deleted.
 - Assume all non-tree edges have even $dist(A_i,B_i)$. Now, an even cycle exists iff there is a simple cycle with an even number of non-tree edges.

<b>Claim</b>: If a simple cycle with an even number of non-tree edges exists, then there exists a simple cycle with two non-tree edges.

The proof: suppose the claim is true. Then we'll find the conditions where a simple cycle exists with two non-tree edges $i$ and $j$.

Let $P_i$ be the path from $A_i$ to $B_i$. Through casework, we see that a simple cycle between $i$ and $j$ is possible iff $P_i$ and $P_j$ share at least one edge in common. This conclusion (and the casework behind it) gives the intuition to see that a simple cycle with $x$ non-tree edges is only possible if at least one pair of paths intersect, proving the claim.

Now a dp can be done to find the answer. We start with the tree and add a maximum weight subset of non-tree paths such that no two have edge intersection. Let $dp[i]$ be the maximum weight subset of paths that can be added given that all paths are contained inside the subtree of $i$. When calculating $dp[i]$, we can try adding any subset of paths $j$ satisfying $lca(A_j,B_j)=i$.

Represent each of these paths with a bitmask across the children of $i$, where the $j$ th bit is on iff the path goes through the $j$ th child of $i$. Two of these paths don't intersect iff their bitmasks don't intersect.

For each child $c$ of $i$, we can either have one of the paths go through the edge $(i,c)$, or have no paths. If none of the paths go through the edge, then the contribution of $c$ is just $dp[c]$. Otherwise, we pick a path $j$ and add the contribution of $j$ (denoted $C_j$ to $dp[i]$). To find the optimal subset of paths, let's use bitmask dp. For this, redefine the dp as $dp[i][mask]$: the extra constraint is that the set of contributing children make up a subset of $mask$.

The following is how to find contribution of paths. Each path goes through one or two children. The answer for two children is just the sum of contribution of both halves of the path, so assume it goes through one child $c$. The contribution of $j$ is equal to the maximum weight of a set of paths contained inside the subtree of $c$, provided $j$ is included in the set. We can compute this in $O(N)$ by summing up dp values along all nodes in the path (see code for details in the "cost" function). 

The time complexity: $O(NM+(N+M)2^K)$ where $K$ is the maximum degree of any node.