# ARC 148

## A. mod M
Setting $M=2$ makes the answer at most $2$. The answer is equal to $1$, if all $A_i$ are equivalent mod some value of $M$. We can set $M=gcd(A_i-A_{i-1})$ across all $i$. If $M\ge{2}$, then the answer is $1$. Otherwise, it's $2$.

Complexity: $O(NlogA)$.

## D. mod M Game
A trivial winning state is when all distinct values on the blackboard have even frequency (then Bob wins by copying Alice's moves).

Let's consider the state of the game when there are two numbers $X$ and $Y$ remaining. Let $A$ be Alice's sum, and $B$ be Bob's sum. Bob wins iff whichever number Alice picks, picking the other number guarantees Bob's win. Assuming $X\ne{Y}$, this implies $A-B\equiv{B-A}\equiv{X-Y}\pmod{M}$. Thus, $A-B\equiv{X-Y}\equiv{M/2}\pmod{M}$.

Refer to a "turn" as a move done by Alice, then a move done by Bob. Having the state $A-B\equiv{M/2}\pmod{M}$ at the start of some turn is most likely done through ending with the state $A-B\equiv{M/2}\pmod{M}$ or $A\equiv{B}\pmod{M}$ on the previous turn (only in a very niche case is it achievable through $A-B\ne{M/2,0}\pmod{M}$).

So a promising conjecture is that for Bob to win, then at the start of every turn, either $A-B\equiv{M/2}\pmod{M}$, or $A\equiv{B}\pmod{M}$. It means that within each turn, the two numbers picked at either equivalent to $0$ or $M/2$ mod $M$.

We draw a type 1 edge between two indices if the difference of their values is equivalent to $0$, and a type 2 edge if the difference is equivalent to $M/2$. Clearly, Bob wins if a perfect matching exists with an even number of type 2 edges.

Now we can prove that this condition is sufficient for determining if Bob can win or not. If such a matching doesn't exist, then consider a maximal matching. Alice just needs to follow these rules to win:
 - If Bob last picked a vertex not in the matching (or it's the first turn), Alice picks a vertex not in the matching.
 - If Bob last picked a vertex in the matching, Alice picks the complementary vertex in the matching.

As it stands, Alice always wins, since when there are only two vertices left in the set not part of the matching, then it always holds that Alice can pick one of the vertices (and Bob is left with the other) such that $A-B\ne{0,M/2}\pmod{M}$.

To find a matching:
 - If $M$ is odd, then all distinct values on the blackboard have even frequency.
 - If $M$ is even, then for all pairs $(X,X+M/2)$, the parity of the frequency of $X$ is the same as the parity of the frequency of $X+M/2$. If the frequencies are odd, then we draw exactly one type 2 edge. At the end, check if the amount of type 2 edges are even.

Complexity: $O(N)$ at best (although $O(NlogN)$ in code because map.)