# Educational Codeforces Round 174

## E. A, B, AB, and BA
Where there are two consecutive equal characters, split the string at this point because two same characters can never be in the same substring together.

Now all strings are alternating A and B. We can remove exactly one character from an odd length string to get it to partition into two substrings: one composed entirely of AB and the other composed entirely of BA. For  The amount of AB and BA are arbitrary; we can choose however many we want. For even length strings, we need to remove two characters to get this effect.

The strategy is to first use the AB and BA values, and, if we're missing AB or BA at the end, trade off one A and one B for either one of AB or BA. If at the end we have a deficit of A or B, then it's impossible. Else, it's possible.

Additionally, we always have to remove one character from odd length strings, before being able to them arbitrarily between AB and BA. For even length strings, they are already in a fixed partition, and if we want freedom then we have to spend two single characters.

So we assign even strings first. A greedy strategy is as follows:
 - First, assign all even length strings naively to AB and BA, without deleting two characters.
 - If we are missing AB but have a surplus of BA, or the other way around, then repeatedly delete two characters from even length strings, and repartition the strings, to try to get both AB and BA to a surplus. It's optimal to start with the longest length strings to reassign more characters.
 - After this, assign all odd length strings. They are wild cards. We can partition it any way we like so just add accordingly while making sure not to go into a deficit of AB or BA (unless it's impossible to avoid it).

Time complexity: $O(|S|)$.