# ABC 135

## E. Golf
WLOG: assume $X,Y\ge{0}$.

### When $K$ is even
Let the current position of the ball be $(A,B)$. Since the parity of $|X-A|+|Y-B|$ (the Manhattan distance to the goal) is constant when $K$ is even, then there is no solution if $|X-A|+|Y-B|$ is odd. A solution exists otherwise.

For the following cases, assume that $X+Y$ is even.

### Case 1: $X+Y=K$
The answer is $1$ since the Manhattan distance to the goal is exactly $K$.

### Case 2: $X+Y\le{2K}$
When $X+Y\ne{K}$, the answer is at least $2$. We can prove that this lower bound is achievable.

The claim is: for any $(X,Y)$ such that $X+Y\le{2K}$ and $X+Y$ is even, we can express $(X,Y)$ as the sum of two vectors $(a,b)$ and $(c,d)$ where $|a|+|b|=|c|+|d|=K$.

(This claim can be checked with a brute force program). For a direct construction, WLOG assume that $X\le{Y}$ and $X,Y\ge{0}$; then set $a:=K-(Y-X)/2$. The rest follows:
 - $b:=K-a$
 - $c:=X-a$
 - $d:=K-|a|$

### Case 3: $X+Y>2K$
Define an "orthogonal" move as a vector either of the form $(K,0)$ or $(0,K)$.

Only moving in the direction of $(X,Y)$ is fastest, and one way to achieve this is with repeated orthogonal moves. So move orthogonally until $|X-A|+|Y-B|\le{2K}$, then the case is reduced to one of the above two.

### When $K$ is odd
The two move construction from Case 2 (when $K$ is even) only works when $|X-A|+|Y-B|$ is even. Since the parity of $|X-A|+|Y-B|$ changes after every move, then a solution indeed always exists.

The case $X+Y=K$ is the same construction as when $K$ is even.

### Case 1: $X+Y\le{2K}$, $X+Y$ is even
The answer is at least $2$. Use the two move construction to get the answer.

### Case 2: $X+Y\le{2K}$, $X+Y$ is odd
The answer is odd, and since it can't be $1$, then it's at least $3$. We can achieve this lower bound by first making any arbitrary move (such as an orthogonal move) that still maintains $|X-A|+|Y-B|\le{2K}$; then the case is reduced to the first since $|X-A|+|Y-B|$ is now even.

### Case 3: $X+Y>2K$
Same logic as when $K$ is even.

Complexity: $O({X+Y\over{K}})$.