# POI 2011 Round 1

## 3. Lightning Conductor
For each $i$ solve for the maximum $p$ for all $j<i$, and the maximum $p$ for all $j>i$, and take the maximum of both to get the answer for $i$.

Assume we're solving for $j<i$. Then the goal is to find the maximum $h_j-h_i+\sqrt{i-j}$ for each $i$; equivalently, maximizing $h_j+\sqrt{x-j}$ at $x=i$.

We take all functions of the form $h_j+\sqrt{x-j}$ and compute the maximum convex hull, and then query its value at $x=i$.

The method of CHT is different than the traditional method with linear functions. Let's say we have an array containing all functions, sorted by decreasing y-coordinate, at $x=i$. Then the line on the hull at $x=i$ must be given by the leftmost line of the array.

The fact that query points are increasing can be exploited. We sort the hull at $x=1$, query for $x=1$, add function $1$ to the hull, then sort the hull at $x=2$, query $x=2$, add function $2$ to the hull, etc.

We can maintain some invariants on the hull array to speed up these processes (namely, the sorting).

<b>Invariant 1:</b> The x-coordinate of when each function starts, when reading the hull from left to right, forms a strictly increasing sequence.<br>
<b>Reason:</b> Given two functions $i$ and $j$, if $j$ starts earlier than $i$ and is later in the array than $i$, then $i$ will always be greater than $j$ from now on (so we can ignore $j$).

<b>Invariant 2:</b> All adjacent functions in the hull array have an intersection point.<br>
<b>Reason:</b> If two functions don't intersect, then we can remove the function later in the array.

<b>Claim 1:</b> If Invariant 2 holds, then after removing any line from the array, Invariant 2 still holds.<br>
<b>Proof:</b> (Consider the requirements for two square root functions to intersect). The values of $h$ when reading the array left to right must form a non-decreasing sequence, which is still preserved even when removing any line. Thus Invariant 2 still holds.

Updating from from $i-1$ to $i$ is simply as follows: while two adjacent lines intersect before $i$, remove the function earlier in the array from the array. This can never be the maximum from now on (because the line after it will always be greater). Invariant 2 will always hold by Claim 1, so there is no need to check for it.

<b>Invariant 3:</b> When reading the hull from left to right, intersection points of adjacent lines are <b>strictly increasing</b>.<br>
<b>Reason</b>: Let's consider the first three lines of the array. Suppose that the first two intersect later than the latter two. Then by the aforementioned process, the second line is removed by the third line before it can remove the first line. This means the second line will never be the maximum, so we can ignore it from the beginning.

Now an update from $i-1$ to $i$ is as follows: remove the first line of the hull while the intersection point of the first two lines is $\le{i}$.

Then we can query the hull at $x=i$ by looking at the leftmost function.

Now we need to add function $i$ to the hull.
 - First pop functions from the back of the array while their value at $x=i$ is $\le{h_i}$ (because they don't belong, by Invariant 2).
 - Check if $i$ intersects the function at the back of the array (if not, $i$ doesn't belong in the array by Invariant 2).
 - While the intersection point of the last two functions in the array is $\ge$ the intersection point of function $i$ and the last function in the array, pop the last function from the array (because of Invariant 3).
 - Invariant 1 holds by default. I didn't mention this earlier, but Invariant 1 is not useless because it is necessary for proving Claim 2.

The time complexity of this solution is $O(N)$.

Codeforces estimate: I think my solution is 2600, given how it's basically just derivation of a harder version of CHT from scratch (and knowledge of linear CHT is completely useless for this problem).