# Codeforces Round 997

## D. Unique Median
Fix the median $x$. For each $x$, calculate the number of bad subarrays (of even length) without $x$ as the median, and subtract that from the answer. The answer needs to be initialized to $10*(\text{number of even length subarrays}) + (\text{number of odd length subarrays})$ to avoid overcounting.

To calculate for some $x$: a subarray $[l,r]$ is bad if the amount of numbers $<x$ (defined $L(l,r)$), or the amount $>x$ (defined $G(l,r)$), is $\ge{{r-l+1}\over{2}}$. So the amount of bad subarrays for $x$ is equal to the amount of subarrays satisfying $L(l,r)\ge{{r-l+1}\over{2}}$, plus the amount satisfying $G(l,r)\ge{{r-l+1}\over{2}}$, minus the amount satisfying $L(l,r)=G(l,r)={{r-l+1}\over{2}}$.

The second quantity is calculated in the same way as the first. The first is calculated as the following:
 - Transform numbers $<x$ into $1$; numbers $\ge{x}$ into $0$. By taking the prefix sum of this array, we can easily get the value $L(l,r)$.
 - Add $-1$ to every other index. Then take the prefix sum of this array and store it in the array $ps$. The segment $[l,r]$ corresponds to $ps_r-ps_{l-1}$ and stores $L(l,r)-{{r-l+1}\over{2}}$, and thus will have a non-negative sum if and only if $L(l,r)\ge{{r-l+1}\over{2}}$.
 - That means, $ps_r\ge{ps_{l-1}}$, so fix $l$ and use a BIT or indexed set to calculate the amount of $r$.

The third quantity can be calculated as a small extension of this. It runs in $O(NAlogN)$.

## E. Nested Segments
Let's say $M=0$. Casework yields the following result: add the segment $[1,N]$, and then add two segments $[1,k]$ and $[k+1,N]$ (for any $k$), and recursively repeat the process for those two segments. That is, to split the current segment into two segments, add both segments to $T$, and then repeat for those two segments. This is the only method to add the maximum amount of segments. We can view this as a full binary tree with $N$ leaves, so the number of ways to add the maximum amount of segments is just $C_{N-1}$ which is the $(N-1)th$ Catalan number.

The answer to the problem, formally, is the number of full binary trees with $N$ leaves, such that the segment corresponding to each node either completely contains $[l_i,r_i]$, is contained by $[l_i,r_i]$, or is disjoint from it. We can deduce from the optimal strategy that there must exist a node whose segment is exactly equal to $[l_i,r_i]$.

So we can reduce the tree to only the nodes corresponding to $[l_i,r_i]$, then run dp. $dp_i$ is the amount of ways to configure the subtree of $i$. Also, let $len_i$ be the length of the segment for node $i$. If $i$ has no children, then $dp_i=C_{len_i-1}$ as the subtree of $i$ has $len_i$ leaves. If $i$ has children, then just compress the children's ranges into points and use the Catalan numbers on the result. Specifically, let $L=len_i-\sum{len_x}$ for all children $x$ of $i$. $dp_i=C_L\cdot{\prod{dp_x}}$.

This solution runs in $O(NlogN)$. A remotely similar problem is [CF 1830C - Hyperregular Bracket Strings](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1830/C).