# Codeforces Round 993 (#2044)

## A. Easy Problem
We get that $A\in\set{1,2,\dots,N-2,N-1}$. $(A,B)=(A,N-A)$ so there are exactly $N-1$ pairs for some integer $N$. We can calculate this in $O(1)$, although a slower solution would be to loop through all possibilities for $(A,B)$.

## B. Normal Problem
The answer is the original string, mirrored horizontally (even the letters themselves). 'p' mirrors to 'q', 'q' mirrors to 'p', and 'w' remains 'w'. Let this character mapping function be $f(c)$. So we need to reverse $a$, then flip each character by applying $f$ to it. This can be done in $O(|a|)$.

## C. Hard Problem
Monkeys of type C have no restriction so assign them last. First, seat as many monkeys as possible, so assign $min(m,a)$ monkeys to the first row and $min(m,b)$ monkeys to the second row. Let this sum be $S$. We have $2m-S$ seats remaining, so assign the remaining $c$ monkeys to these seats. So, the answer is $min(2m-S,c)+S$. This is calculated in $O(1)$.

## D. Harder Problem
A permutation of the numbers $1\dots{N}$ suffices for the solution because every number can be the mode. The only goal is to find such a permutation satisfying all constraints. We can rely on the following greedy strategy to use every number exactly once: if the current $a_i$ has been used already, then set $b_i$ to an arbitrary unused number. Otherwise, we must set $b_i$ to $a_i$. Storing all unused numbers can be done with 2p or a set, so $O(N)$ (or $O(NlogN)$).

## E. Insane Problem
We can brute force all values of $N$ because there are at most $log_2(10^9)$ possible values of $N$. The valid range for $X$ must be a consecutive range of natural numbers, which we can get by taking the intersection of $[l_1,r_1]$ with $[\lceil{l_2\over K^N}\rceil,\lfloor{r_2\over K^N}\rfloor]$. This is because for the second range, any integer in that range, when multiplied by $K^N$, produces a valid $Y$ value in the range $[l_2,r_2]$. ($Y=XK^N$ after rearranging)

Time complexity: $O(log(\max{N}))$.

## F. Easy Demon Problem
Let $sum_a=\sum_{i=1}^N{a_i}$ and $sum_b=\sum_{i=1}^M{b_i}$. The sum of the matrix is compactly expressed as $sum_asum_b$. When we choose $r$ and $c$ and set the row and column to $0$, the new expression is therefore $(sum_a-a_r)(sum_b-b_c)$. Store the set of all $sum_a-a_r$ in $S_a$, and same for array $b$ in $S_b$.

We'll precalculate all queries. For each possible $X$ satisfying $-2*10^5\le{X}\le{2*10^5}, X\ne{0}$, loop through all pairs of divisors (positive and negative) and check if the first divisor is present in $S_a$ and the second divisor is present in $S_b$. This can be done with a $O(logN)$ or $O(logM)$ set query, or $O(1)$ boolean array lookup (depending on how $S_a$ and $S_b$ are stored). If both divisors are present in their respective sets, then this $X$ is possible. Answering queries can then be done in $O(1)$.

Again, depending on how $S_a$ and $S_b$ are stored, the time complexity is either $O(\max(x_i)log\max(x_i)(logN+logM)+Q)$, or $O(\max(x_i)log\max(x_i))$. My code has the first time complexity.

## G1. Medium Demon Problem (easy version)
We have a functional graph. Every node is either in a cycle or on a path to the cycle, so this means that once a spider loses a plushie, it won't end up with another one at some later point. We can therefore say that a year is unstable if and only if some spider loses a plushie that year. Any spiders in a cycle will always end up with the same number of plushies as before, but for any path to a cycle, the sum of all plushies on that path decreases by one every year. Let the length of the path be $L$. There's initially $L$ plushies, so the amount decreases by one every year until year $L$, where after the exchange the amount of plushies reaches $0$. So at the beginning of year $L$, the amount is $1$, for year $L+1$, it's $0$, and for year $L+2$, it's $0$. So there's no change between years $L+1$ and $L+2$, so the minimum year to become stable for this path is year $L+2$. The answer must be the maximum value of $L_i+2$ across all paths $i$.

To calculate the length of all paths, I use Floyd's algorithm to find cycles, and then dfs from each node in the cycle with a reverse adjacency list. $O(N)$ time complexity.

## G2. Medium Demon Problem (hard version)
I'm definitely running out of energy because this took way longer than it should've; I'll probably stop after this contest.

Same thing; we have a functional graph. The answer is also the same concept. If we take the earliest time that each node in the cycle stops getting updated, then the answer is the maximum of these times plus $2$. But now, the earliest time is slightly different.

Every node passes at a rate of one plushie per second. Except now, let's consider all the nodes that directly point to some node $x$ that is in a cycle. If we consider the subtree size of those nodes when dealing with the reverse adjacency list, then the subtree size is the amount of time it takes to pass all plushies in that subtree to node $x$. Node $x$ stops getting updated when the last subtree finishes; i.e., take the maximum subtree size out of all the ones to consider. This is done with a simple modification of the previous algorithm, and the time complexity is the same, $O(N+M)$.

## H. Hard Demon Problem
The solution is to decompose the sum into many easier subsums.

Let the submatrix $M$ be the following: $\begin{bmatrix} a & b & c & d \\ e & f & g & h \\ i & j & k & l \end{bmatrix}$. The sum in question is the sum of all elements in this matrix denoted $S$: $\begin{bmatrix} 1a&2b&3c&4d \\ 5e&6f&7g&8h \\ 9i&10j&11k&12l \end{bmatrix}$.

Letting $C=\begin{bmatrix} 1a&2b&3c&4d \\ 1e&2f&3g&4h \\ 1i&2j&3k&4l \end{bmatrix}$ and $R=\begin{bmatrix} 
0a&0b&0c&0d \\ 1e&1f&1g&1h \\ 2i&2j&2k&2l \end{bmatrix}$, we get that $S=C+4R$. The coefficient of $4$ simply comes from the number of columns in the matrix.

We store 2d prefix sums on $R$ and $C$, for the original matrix. Then, we can quickly retrieve the sum of all elements in $R$ and $C$ up to the following states, denoted $R'$ and $C'$: 

$C'=\begin{bmatrix} (x+1)a&(x+2)b&(x+3)c&(x+4)d \\ (x+1)e&(x+2)f&(x+3)g&(x+4)h \\ (x+1)i&(x+2)j&(x+3)k&(x+4)l \end{bmatrix}$ for some integer $x$.

$R'=\begin{bmatrix} 
(y+0)a&(y+0)b&(y+0)c&(y+0)d \\ (y+1)e&(y+1)f&(y+1)g&(y+1)h \\ (y+2)i&(y+2)j&(y+2)k&(y+2)l \end{bmatrix}$ for some integer $y$. 

$x$ and $y$ are pretty much the index of $M_{0,0}$ in the original matrix, transposed by some small constant. To get back to $R$ and $C$, observe that $R=R'-xM$ and $C=C'-yM$. We can then add $C+4R$ to get $S$, our sum matrix. Instead of doing math with the matrices themselves, we can do math with the sums of the matrices (which we get from 2d prefix sums) in order to get the sum of $S$ instead of matrix $S$.

The time complexity is $O(1)$ per query, and the precalculation is $O(N^2)$. Therefore, the algorithm runs in $O(N^2+Q)$.

## Comments:
Order solved: H, A, F, G1, G2, B, C, D, E. The hardest for me was G2 because the solution did not come as quickly to me, followed by F because it was the only one that I needed to consult the editorial for (I missed that the total sum is just $sum_a*sum_b$ lol). I thought H had a more elegant solution than prefix sums, but I'm not sure. 