# Codeforces Global Round 28

## F. Kevin and Math Class
I had to learn about Cartesian trees and convolution for this

1) The number of operations is bounded by $61$ (the smallest value of $b$ is $2$, so the smallest number $s'$ such that $s=\lceil{s'\over{2}}\rceil$ is $2s-1$. Only 61 of these operations can be done before the number exceeds $10^{18}$).
2) The division process is associative. In the case for two divisors $b$ and $c$, $\lceil{\lceil{a/b}\rceil/c}\rceil=\lceil{\lceil{a/c}\rceil/b}\rceil$. The proof comes from that for any two divisors $x$ and $y$, $\lceil{\lceil{a/x}\rceil/y}\rceil=\lceil{a/x/y}\rceil$. To generalize to multiple divisors, we know that a pair of adjacent divisors can be swapped, so we can simply swap adjacent divisors any number of times to obtain any permutation of divisors, while keeping the result the same.
3) Given that we've fixed the minimum as $b_i$, we want to greedily operate on the largest range possible such that $b_i$ is the minimum in that range. This is the nearest smaller values problem; because duplicate $b_i$ are allowed, we will bound the range by the first element $<b_i$ on the left side, and the first element $\le{b_i}$ on the right side. This means we only have $N$ ranges to consider.

Construct the cartesian tree on $b$, effectively simplifying the ranges from 3) into a tree structure. We will do subtree dp, and let $dp[i][m]$ be the minimum maximum value of some $a_j$ contained inside the subtree of $i$, given that we have made $m$ moves so far. [The Cartesian tree implementation I used](https://en.oi-wiki.org/ds/cartesian-tree/)

Let $l_i$ and $r_i$ be the left and right children of $i$. Here are the transitions:
 - $dp[i][m]=\min_{j+k=m}(\max(dp[l_i][j],dp[r_i][k],a_i))$, if we choose to combine answers for subtree $l_i$ and $r_i$.
 - $dp[i][m+1]=\lceil{dp[i][m]\over{b_i}}\rceil$, if we choose to operate on subtree $i$.

The first transition can be done in polynomial time, but that times out (I'm pretty sure). As $l_i$ and $r_i$ are non-increasing, a faster way is to do the $(\min,\max)$ convolution on $l_i$ and $r_i$, which is the same as merging them together in sorted order. Letting the merged array be $C$, $dp[i][m]=\max(C_m,a_i)$.

Transitions take $O(log(\max{a_i}))$ so the whole solution runs in $O(Nlog(\max{a_i}))$.