# ARC 147

## E. Examination
Assume the answer exists.

Sort students by increasing $A_i$. For each $i$, find the first index $j$ such that $A_j\ge{B_i}$. This means that after all swaps, student $i$'s score must come from a student in the range $[j,N]$. Let this $j$ be denoted $C_i$.

The problem is reduced to the following: we are given $N$ pairs $(C_i,D_i:=i)$ (where $D_i$ forms a permutation of $[1,N]$). Find a matching between the permutation $(1,2,\dots,N)$ and the $N$ pairs such that for pair $i$ ($1\le{i}\le{N}$), the number it's matched is in the range $[C_i,N]$. Find a matching that maximizes the amount of pairs $(C_i,D_i)$ matched with $D_i$, and return the amount of such pairs.

This is solved with a greedy strategy. Sort pairs by decreasing $C_i$. We assume that when processing pair $i$, then we have already matched all pairs before $i$.

If pair $j$ is already matched with $D_j$, then it's never optimal to change the number it's matched with in favor of a different number. Call such numbers <i>immutable</i>. All non-immutable numbers in the range $[1,N]$ are considered mutable. If a mutable number is already assigned to some pair, it is an assigned mutable number; otherwise, an unassigned mutable number.

The claim is: when processing $i$, match $C_i$ with $D_i$ if possible. If impossible, match $C_i$ with the smallest unassigned mutable number that is $\ge{C_i}$. The following is the specifics of this:
 - Suppose $D_i$ is an unassigned mutable number. Then it's clearly optimal to assign $C_i$ to $D_i$.
 - Suppose $D_i$ is an assigned mutable number. If we assign $C_i$ to $D_i$, then the pair currently matched with $D_i$ gets reassigned to the smallest mutable number $>D_i$. If that number is matched, reassign that pair as well; continue until no mutable numbers remain (in which case this assignment is impossible) or until the reassignment is complete. In this case, the last reassigned pair is matched to the smallest unassigned mutable number $>D_i$. By simplifying into this operation it's easy to see why matching $C_i$ with $D_i$ is optimal.

Complexity: $O(NlogN)$ by maintaining all unassigned and assigned mutable numbers with two sets.