# ABC 390

## D. Stone XOR
This problem is just heavy brute force. Performing the operations is equivalent to partitioning the bags into non-empty sets (such that each bag is in exactly one set) and then taking the xor of the sum of stones in every set. We are essentially asked to find the number of unique xor values across all partitions.

These are the Bell numbers: $B_{12}=4213597$, the number of ways to partition a set of $12$ elements. So brute force will run in time. The brute force transitions are either to add the next element to a new group or add it to any existing groups. $O(B_N\cdot{N})$ runtime.

## F. Double Sum 3
Consider the set of integers $S_{L,R}$ originally on the blackboard. Define numbers $a$ and $b$ to be in the same connected component if we can erase both numbers in one operation. Formally, $a<b$, $a\in{S}$, $b\in{S}$, and $b=a$ or $b=a+1$. The number of connected components gives the minimum number of operations to erase all numbers on the blackboard. For each component, we perform the operation $[l,r]$ such that $l$ is the minimum in the component and $r$ is the maximum.

Therefore, we can compute such values $f_i$ ($1\le{i}\le{N}$) which counts the amount of pairs $(L,R)$ such that $l=a_i$. The answer is the sum of all $f_i$.

Clearly, $l=a_i$ if $a_i-1\not\in{S}$, and $a_i\in{S}$. For each $i$, we can find the largest range $[l,r]$ such that $l\le{i}\le{r}$ and $a_i-1\not\in\set{a_l,a_{l+1},\dots,a_r}$. The amount of $(L,R)$ pairs for this $i$ is then equal to the amount of ranges contained inside $[l,r]$ (so that $a_i-1\not\in{S}$ is satisfied) and containing $i$ (so that $a_i\in{S}$ is satisfied), which is $(i-l+1)(r-i+1)$, and we'll add this to the answer. To avoid double counting ranges, add the extra restriction $a_i\not\in\set{a_l,a_{l+1},\dots,a_{i-1}}$.

Calculating the $[l,r]$ ranges requires binary search or two pointers so the time complexity is either $O(NlogN)$ or $O(N)$.