# ABC 304

## Ex. Constrained Topological Sort
Reinterpreting the constraints on the answer:
 - $P_i$ is the position of node $i$ in a topological sort.
 - So find a toposort that such that for each node $i$, its position in the toposort is between $L_i$ and $R_i$, inclusive.

We use a modification of Kahn's algorithm. The only difficulty is determining which node should be next in the toposort. Letting $r_i$ be the minimum $R_j$ for all nodes $j$ that are reachable from $i$, we intuitively see that we want to select the node with the minimum $r_i$ to be next. It is worth noting that by how toposort works, then when picking the next node in the toposort it is not necessary to worry about $L_i$, only $R_i$.

The proof of selecting the minimum $r_i$ is simple: suppose at some point in the toposort we have two options for nodes to pick: one has $r_i=10$ and the other has $r_i=9$. Let the set of nodes necessary to select from this point onwards to get the node with $r_i=10$ in the toposort be $B$, and the set of nodes necessary to get $r_i=9$ in the toposort be $A$. "Completing" a set is defined as getting all nodes in the set in the toposort.

The proof is: if we can complete $B$ before $A$, we can always complete $A$ before $B$; however, if we can complete $A$ before $B$, we can't always complete $B$ before $A$. A way to see this is that all nodes in $B$ are bounded by $R=10$, and all nodes in $A$ are bounded by $R=9$ (which are stronger constraints).

Time complexity: $O(M+NlogN)$.