# ABC 049

## A. UOIAUAI
Brute force all vowels and check equality with each of them. $O(1)$ complexity.

## B. Thin
As we read in the data, once we finish reading in one row then we'll print it out twice, therefore doubling the height of the final picture. So, it runs in $O(HW)$.

## C. Daydream
Some strings are prefixes of others, so we can't greedily add strings to form $T$. However, no string is a suffix of another string, so we can go in reverse and greedily remove a string from the back of $S$ if possible. If we can get $S$ to an empty string, then it works. Obviously, dp could also be used to solve the general case.

Time complexity is $O(|S||C|)$, where $C$ is the concatenation of all strings that we can append to $T$.

## D. Connectivity
The property is clearly transitive. If $A$ and $B$ are connected by both and $B$ and $C$ are also connected by both, then $A$ and $C$ are connected by both.

So first, find the components when only restricted to roads and when only restricted to rails. This is done with DSU. Also, define a DSU for the answer. After this, go through each component in the road DSU. This satisfies the first property, that they are connected by roads. Now for each node in this component, check its component in the rail DSU, and merge together nodes in this road component that are in the same rail component. This merging is done in the answer DSU, and will satisfy the rail connectivity.

At the end, the size of a node's component in the answer DSU is the answer for that node. Essentially, the answer DSU is a union of the road and rail DSU. As a result, this solution runs in $O((K+L)\alpha(N)))$.