# Codeforces Round 1000 (#2063)

## D. Game With Triangles
Refer to the bases of the triangle as the two points collinear to each other by a horizontal line. The area of the triangle is the distance between the bases. Also, sort $a$ and $b$.

If we want to make $x$ triangles in $a$, then we pair up the first and last, the second first and second last, etc up until $x$. The third points are just $x$ arbitrary points in set $b$. Using this, we can figure out the optimal score for $x$ triangles in $a$ and $y$ triangles in $b$.

For each $k$, we can construct bounds on $x$ and ternary search on the $(x,y=k-x)$ pair producing the maximum area. Checks can be done in $O(1)$ after precalculation. So, $O(NlogN+MlogM)$.

## E. Triangle Tree
Let $a=dist(u,lca(u,v))$ and $b=dist(v,lca(u,v))$. $x$ lies in the range $(|a-b|,a+b)$, so the amount of possible values for $x$ is $(a+b-1)-(max(a,b)-min(a,b)+1)+1$, which simplifies to $2\cdot{min(a,b)}-1$ (if $a<b$ then it's $(a+b-1)-(b-a+1)+1=2a-1$, and vice versa).

Computing this efficiently can be done by decomposing $a$ and $b$ further into static variables. Let $d_i$ denote the depth of $i$ in the tree, and $l=lca(u,v)$. Then, $a=d_u-d_l$ and $b=d_v-d_l$. Substitute to get $2\cdot{min(d_u-d_l,d_v-d_l)}-1$, so we can split up the sum into three parts: $2\cdot{min(d_u,d_v)}$ minus $2d_l$, minus $1$.

For bad pairs $f(u,v)$, the formula produces $-1$ as the answer because of the $-1$ we add at the very end. So discard that part for now such that it evaluates to $0$, and reduce to $2\cdot{min(d_u,d_v)}-2d_l$. We'll add back the $-1$'s at the very end by subtracting the total amount of good pairs (denoted $G$).

This is useful because now we just calculate the sum of the formula for all pairs, and subtract $G$ to get the answer. Both parts of the sum are very easy to calculate: two nodes $u$ and $v$ have an lca of node $i$ if they are in different children of $i$'s subtrees, so dp works for that. The first part is done by arranging all nodes by depth as to fix $d_u\le{d_v}$. Therefore, the solution runs in $O(N)$.