# Codeforces Round 1005 (#2069)

## B. Variety is Discouraged
The score of $a$ can never increase. It decreases by $1$ if an element is removed that is not distinct in $a$, and increases by $1$ if an element that is distinct in $a$ is removed. So to minimize the length of $a$, we should remove the longest subarray that consists entirely of elements distinct in $a$. Finding it takes $O(N)$.

## C. Remove the Ends
Go backwards. So, select a start element $i$ and repeatedly select an element $>0$ that is to the left of all selected elements so far, or an element $<0$ that is to the right of all selected elements so far. Optimally, this is the absolute value of the sum of all negative elements to the right of $i$, plus the absolute value of $i$, plus the sum of all positive elements to the left of $i$. So fix $i$ and use prefix and suffix sums to calculate the answer, all in $O(N)$.

## D. Eating
It turns out that my solution is much more complex than the official solution. I am very sad.

Let $xor_i=(w_{i+1}\oplus{w_{i+1}}\oplus\dots\oplus{w_n})$. For each query $j$, we want to find the first slime $i$ from the back of the array, such that $xor_i\oplus{x_j}<w_i$.

Maintain a set of currently unanswered queries, and iterate over $i$ in reverse. Whenever we find for some query $j$ that $xor_i\oplus{x_j}<w_i$, then we answer that query and remove it from the set. Now the goal remains to efficiently solve the inequality $xor_i\oplus{x_j}<w_i$, as we clearly can't brute force over $j$.

We can fix the most significant bit $k$ that $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$ and $w_i$ differ at. 
 - This means that the suffix of bits $(k+1)\dots{log_2(w)}$ must be identical in both numbers.
 - Next, in order to satisfy the inequality, the $k$ th bit of $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$ must be <b>unset</b>, and the $k$ th bit of $w_i$ must be <b>set</b>.
 - Which means, that the inequality is satisfied regards of the states of all bits $0\dots{k-1}$ in $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$. 

Consequently, we can deduce the range of possible numbers for $x_j$. We know the bits $[k+1,log_2(w)]$ because they must match between $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$ and $w_i$. We know bit $k$ because it must be unset in $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$. Let this bits $[k,log_2(w)]$ make up the number $s$. And, because the states of bits $[0,k-1]$ don't matter in $xor_i\oplus{x_j}$, then they also don't matter in $x_j$.

So some $x_j$ satisfies the inequality if the suffix of bits $[k,log_2(w)]$ equals to $s$. The range of all numbers satisfying this is exactly $[s,2^k-1+s]$. So we just answer all queries in that range, with binary search.

The time complexity is $O(NlogWlogQ+Q)$.

## E. Mycraft Sand Sort
$c'=c$. Otherwise, the first column will be wrong.

Let the set of the currently visible blocks at some column $i$ be $S_i$. As we iterate over the columns from left to right, we remove exactly one block from $S_i$ to get to set $S_{i+1}$.

The order of colors in each $S_i$ will always be the same, no matter which blocks are in the set. So disregard the blocks. In this sense, redefine $S_i$ to contain the colors of the blocks instead of the blocks themselves. For each $S_i$, we can compute the amount of different positions that we can remove in order to ensure that $S_i$ transforms into $S_{i+1}$. The answer is the product of all values.

We can find one valid removal position by simply simulating with the given array $p$. The block $x$ satisfying $p_x=i$ will be removed after column $i$, so we can just find out which color it corresponds to in $S_i$. This gives us one position, which will be denoted $D$.

Split $S_i$ into same-color components. Formally, two elements in $S_i$ are in the same component if their colors are the same and all elements between them also have the same color. We can say that an element is a valid candidate for removal if and only if it is in the same component as $D$ in $S_i$. So the amount of candidates is the size of the component of $D$. The product of all these sizes gives the answer.

Store the components with DSU. Since we remove block $D$ after operation $i$, then $D-1$ and $D+1$ will be adjacent in $S_{i+1}$, so merge their components together.

The runtime is generally $O(NlogN)$ from a binary search to find the value of $D$, but a double linked list can reduce it down to the DSU-dominated complexity of $O(N\alpha(N))$.

## F. We Be Summing
For a subarray: as $i$ increases, both $\min(b_1\dots{b_i})$ and $\max(b_{i+1}\dots{b_m})$ are non-increasing, so the pair of numbers that sum to $k$, $(x,k-x)$, is uniquely determined.

With loss of generality assume all numbers are distinct. For each index $i$ calculate the range $mn_i$, which is from the first index $j$ to the left of $i$ such that $a_j<a_i$, to the first index $j$ to the right of $i$ such that $a_j<a_i$. Calculate $mx_i$ as well, which stores indices $j$ satisfying $a_j>a_i$.

If $mn_i$ and $mx_j$ intersect (excluding endpoints), and $j>i$, then any subarray $[l,r]$ satisfying $l\le{i},r\ge{j},[l,r]\in[mn_i\cup mx_j]$ is epic.

So calculate the answer by fixing $x$ and calculating the amount of epic subarrays from $mn_i$ and $mx_j$, where $a_i=x$ and $a_j=k-x$. That would take $O(N)$.

A bit more care is required because $a$ can contain equivalent elements. To avoid overcounting, store $mn_i$ as from the first index $j<i$ such that $a_j<a_i$ to the first index $j>i$ such that $a_j\le{a_i}$. Store $mx_i$ similarly.

Then when fixing $x$, sweep through all ranges $mn_i$ such that $a_i=x$ and compare each to all ranges $mx_j$ such that $a_j=k-x$. That would naively take $O(N^2)$, but with sweep line can be reduced to $O(N)$.

Total time complexity, therefore, is also $O(N)$.