# 2024 ICPC Northern Eurasia Southern and Volga Russia Regional

## C. DIY
Each coordinate must appear twice. So define an array $a'$ that satisfies the following: if a number appears $x$ times in $a$, then it appears $\lfloor{x\over{2}}\rfloor$ times in $a'$.

We must select four numbers $a,b,c,d$ from array $a'$ as to maximize the product $(b-a)\cdot(d-c)$; i.e., set the bottom left corner to be $(a,c)$ and the top right to be $(b,d)$. It can be shown that after sorting $a'$, the optimal selection is $a'_1,a'_{m-1},a'_2,a'_m$ where $m=|a'|$. Consequently, if $m<4$, then there is no solution.

It can be calculated in $O(NlogN)$ with sorting, or even in $O(N)$ as we only need to find the minimum two and maximum two values in $a'$.

## D. Divide OR Conquer
If the current segment has right endpoint $i$, then there are only $log_2{10^9}$ values for the bitwise OR of this segment. So $dp[i][x]$ is the amount of ways to validly divide the first $i$ numbers into segments such that the bitwise OR of the last segment equals $x$.

First, we can extend the current segment. The transition is: $dp[i][x]\rightarrow{dp[i+1][x|a_{i+1}]}$.

Second, start a new segment. Let $j$ be the earliest index $(j>i)$ such that $a_{i+1}|a_{i+2}|\dots|a_j\ge{x}$. 
Then the transition is $dp[i][x]\rightarrow{dp[j][x_2:=a_{i+1}|a_{i+2}|\dots|a_j]}$.

$j$ can be found by the following process:
 - For two numbers $A$ and $B$, $B>A$ if for the most significant bit that $A$ and $B$ differ at, $A$ has that bit turned off and $B$ has that bit turned on.
 - Calculate $j$ by fixing that MSB. For a helper function, define $t(i,b)$ to return the earliest $k>i$ that has bit $b$ turned on.
 
If we fix the MSB as $b$: first, $b$ must be off in $x$. All bits more significant than $b$, and turned on in $x$, must be turned on in $x_2$. Bit $b$ also must be turned on in $x_2$. So take the maximum value of $t(i,b_2)$ for all bits $b_2$ that must be turned on in $x_2$. That is the candidate for $j$, and we take the minimum of these candidates across all $b$ to get the value for $j$.

Time complexity: $O(Nlog^2A)$.