# CF Round 633 (#1338)

## C. Perfect Triples
The first three terms of the sequence cover all possibilities for the first two bits. The fourth term in the sequence, $a_2$, is $4$, which has the third bit as MSB. Thus, as to minimize $b_2$, $b_2$ must have the fourth bit as MSB and the third bit turned off.

We can generalize this by proving that whenever the third bit is the MSB of $a$, then the fourth bit is the MSB in $b$ (and the third bit isn't turned on). (proof later)

That means that as $a$ enumerates from $4$ to $8$ (set of numbers with third bit as MSB), then the minimum $b$ such that $a,b,c\notin{S}$ ($c:=a\oplus{b}$) has fourth bit as MSB and third bit off. Consequently, after adding the last triplet of this kind (where $a=8$), then $S=\set{1,2,\dots,2^4-2,2^4-1}$.

So now, $S$ exactly covers all possibilities for the first four bits — now the next $a$ must have the fifth bit as MSB; $b$ has the sixth bit as MSB and the fifth turned off; the process repeats itself (proof by induction). We can use this fact to derive $a$ (e.g. for six bits: $a$ enumerates all numbers with the fifth bit as MSB so simple math nets us the value of $a$).

The derivation of $b$ is actually a side result of proving the above claim: whenever the MSB of $a$ is the third bit, the MSB of $b$ is the fourth bit (in general: if the MSB of $a$ is the $x-1$ th bit (when $x-1$ is odd), the MSB of $b$ is the $x$ th bit).

As stated above, if this is the case, then the combined union of all $a,b,c$ make up all numbers with the $x-1$ th and $x$ th bits as MSB. Since the $x-1$ th and $x$ th bits are constant in all of $a,b,c$, we ignore them. So when looking at the first $x-2$ bits of these values of $b$, then they form a permutation of $[0,2^{x-2}-1]$ (equivalently, all possibilities of the first $x-2$ bits). Same goes for $c$. Since $a$ enumerates all numbers with the $x-1$ th bit turned on, it trivially holds for $a$ as well.

If $a',b',c'$ represent $a,b,c$ with the $x-1$ th and $x$ th bits turned off, then the question is: when enumerating $a'$ from $0$ to $2^{x-2}-1$, and selecting the minimum $b'\in[0,2^{x-2}-1]$ that hasn't been used before such that $c'=a'\oplus{b'}$ also hasn't been selected, then will we always be able to find a valid $b'$?

Surprisingly, yes. We use proof by induction. Proving this for the first two bits is trivial through casework: if $a=1$, then the first bit of $a'$ is on, then the minimum $b'$ has the second bit turned on, thus producing the triplet $(a',b',c')=(1,2,3)$. When $a=2$, then the second bit of $a'$ is on, then the minimum $b'$ has both bits turned on; the triplet is $(2,3,1)$. When $a=3$, then both bits are turned on in $a'$, then the minimum $b'$ has the first bit turned on, and we get $(3,1,2)$.

Through induction, it's easy to see how this proof works for four bits: $a'$ first enumerates through all numbers with third bit as MSB, then numbers with fourth bit on and third bit turned off, then all numbers with third and fourth bits turned on. The first two bits of the corresponding $b'$ can be derived from the above mapping for two bits depending on the first two bits of $a'$, and then the third and fourth bits are derived very similarly to what we did above: if $a'$ has third bit on and fourth bit off, then the minimum $b'$ has the fourth bit on and third bit off, etc.

Now it holds for four bits. For six bits, we already have a mapping for the first four bits and can substitute them in. Then to find the values of the fifth and sixth bits, we do the same thing. By induction, this works for any even number of bits.

So $b$ is calculated in $O(loga)$ time: iterate through every other pair of adjacent bits in $a$, and follow the mapping $10\rightarrow{01}$; $01\rightarrow{11}$; $11\rightarrow{10}$; $00\rightarrow{00}$ to fill in the bit representation of $b$.

Then $c=a\oplus{b}$. This runs in $O(logN)$ per test case.