# AOC 2024

## 1. Historian Hysteria
### Part 1
Sort each array and calculate the difference between each pair of same-index elements in $O(N)$.

### Part 2
Calculate the frequency of each element in the second array with a map, then do the trivial solution. $O(NlogN)$,

## 2. Red-Nosed Reports
### Part 1
Brute force over the two possibilities, so $O(N)$.

### Part 2
I went with the $O(N^2)$ brute force. I actually tried an $O(N)$ solution at first wasn't able to figure it out (somehow; it's easy). Here it is: given that you can only remove one value, try all of them in reverse order and cache whether each suffix of the string works with/without one removal (basically dp).

## 3. Mull It Over
### Part 1
If we find a string "mul(", then try to find a number that follows it. After the number ends, if the next character is a comma, then continue onwards. Repeat to find another number and then check if the final character is ")". If all these checks pass then it's ok. $O(|S|)$ time complexity.

### Part 2
Also, keep track of whether or not we find strings "don't()" or "do()". Only process a "mul" statement if the last instruction was a "do". The complexity is the same, $O(|S|)$.

## 4. Ceres Search
### Part 1
I couldn't find an elegant solution to this problem, so I used the simple brute force check (although you could reflect the grid to save code, I guess). So it's $O(NM)$; $N*M$ is the grid size.

### Part 2
This makes me think I came up with a terrible solution to Part 1, because the code is much simpler for this one. Just check is the two diagonals are transformations of the word "MAS". It has the same complexity of $O(NM)$.