# CF Round 535 (#1108)

## E1. Array and Segments (Easy version)
Assuming the maximum in $b$ is at index $i$, then no segments that we use should cover $i$. If so then we can just greedily delete that segment.

So fix each element as the maximum and use difference arrays to quickly process all segments that don't intersect $i$. Then just take the minimum of the new array and subtract it from $a_i$ to get a candidate for the answer. Take the maximum across all candidates.

Time complexity is $O(N(N+M))$.

## E2. Array and Segments (Hard version)
We improve finding the minimum for each maximum $i$. It can be split into two parts: the minimum to the left of $i$ and finding the minimum to the right of $i$, because no segment can cover $i$. 

$L_i$ is equal to the minimum value in the range $[1,i-1]$ after processing all segments $j$ such that $[l_j,r_j]\subseteq[1,i-1]$. We can find these values recursively. Given $L_{i}$ and the array after adding all segments in the range $[1,i-1]$, then, we can find $L_{i+1}$ by adding all segments ending at $i$ to $b$ and updating the minimum. Repeat to find the minimum element to the right of $i$, and then we can compute the answer as $\max_{1\le{i}\le{N}}(a_i-\min(L_i,R_i))$. The time complexity is reduced to $O(NM)$.

## F. MST Unification
All MSTs have exactly the same edge weights (proof by contradiction).

Group all edges by weight. The only way to possibly get a different MST is to process the edges in a group in a different order. We're using Kruskal's, so groups can be calculated independently, because no matter the order of the group, the same components are formed after processing all edges in the group.

Given this, we can just see for each edge in each group, whether there exists some ordering of the group such that the edge is added to the MST. The easy way to do this is to order the group such that this edge is first. So, we basically just test all edges against the current MST to see if they can be added, but don't actually add them if it's possible (this is the same thing as assuming it's first).

After this, actually add edges to the MST. The same components are formed, so it doesn't matter which order we add edges in.

At the end, denote the number of edges that don't belong to the final MST, but could have been in the MST, as $D$. Each edge only needs to be incremented once, as this effectively moves them to the next group, where they are useless now. The group it was initially in will still produce the same components no matter if this edge was in that group or not, so processing this edge after that group means that it can't be added to the MST. So, the answer is $D$.

$O(MlogM)$ for sorting.