# ABC 313

## G. Redistribution of Piles
It's pointless to do a type $2$ operation followed by a type $1$ operation, so all type $1$ operations should be done before any type $2$ operations.

When at least one pile is empty and at least one is nonempty, then any number of type $1$ operations followed by any number of type $2$ operations will produce a distinct sequence, as long as each operation modifies the sequence. That is, all type $1$ operations add a positive amount of stones to the bag, and all type $2$ operations are performed when there are more than $N$ stones in the bag.

The yield of type $1$ operations is a non-decreasing function from $N$ to $0$. Sort by $a_i$ and initialize the answer to $a_1+1$, the amount of type $1$ operations before any pile is empty. Since the aforementioned conditions are now satisfied, then any sequence of type $1$ operations followed by type $2$ operations produces a distinct sequence.

Iterate over each yield $M$ from $N-1$ to $1$. Let's count the number of operations that will produce this yield, denoted $D$. Then the amount of stones in the bag after the $x$ th of these operations is expressed as a linear function $f(x)=Mx+B$, $B$ being the initial amount of stones in the bag. After the $x$ th operation, we may perform anywhere from $0$ to $\lfloor{f(x)\over{N}}\rfloor$ type $2$ operations, each of which creates a distinct sequence.

So we aim to add $\sum_{x=1}^D(\lfloor{f(x)\over{N}}\rfloor+1)$ to the answer. Atcoder Library has a built-in function for this running in $O(logD)$.

Time complexity: $O(NlogA)$ since $D$ is bounded by $A$ and there are $N$ values of $M$.