# APIO 2013

## 2. Toll
### Brute Force
Fix all $2^K$ subsets of new edges that are used in the MST. Let the subset be $E$.

<b>Claim 1: </b>Given that all edges in $E$ are part of the MST, then the set of edges in the MST is the same <b>no matter the weights of the new edges</b>.

To find the maximum possible weight (toll fee) of each new edge, use Kruskal's algorithm. If an edge $(a,b)$ would form a cycle, then the weights of all new edges on the path from $a$ to $b$ are bounded by the weight of this edge. Otherwise, those edges wouldn't be in the MST.

So the maximum weight of an edge is the minimum weight that it is bounded by. Now, dfs to calculate the answer.

Time complexity: $O(N+MlogM+2^KMN)$.

### Full Solution
Consider an alternative way of constructing the MST for a set $E$. Start with the MST that has no new edges in it (referred to as the base MST). Then for each edge $(a,b)$ in $E$, add it to the MST and resolve the cycle that is formed by removing the maximum weight old edge on the path from $a$ to $b$.

Let the removed edges for a set $E$ be $R_E$. By Claim 1, any permutation of adding edges produces the same set $R_E$. Consequently, all $R_E$ are a subset of $R_U$, $U$ being the set of all edges. Also note that <b>the edges in $R_U$ are the strictest bounds on the maximum weights of the new edges</b>, meaning that instead of adding $M$ edges to the MST, it is only necessary to add the edges in $R_U$.

Now checking for a set $E$ is as follows:
 - Start with the base MST.
 - Delete all edges in $R_U$ from the base MST.
 - Add all edges in $E$ to the MST.
 - Try adding edges in $R_U$ to the MST in increasing order of weight. If some edge $(a,b)$ cannot be added, then it instead bounds the weights of new edges on the path between $a$ and $b$ (so do that, in $O(N)$ per edge).
 - The resulting MST is exactly $R_E$, and we also have the maximum weight of each new edge, so dfs in $O(N)$ computes the optimal answer for $E$.

The time complexity of the above is $O(N+MlogM+2^KKN)$ as instead of adding $M$ edges to the MST, we only add $|R_U|=K$.

After deleting edges in $R_U$ from the MST, what's left is a forest with at most $K+1$ components. And each tree in the forest can be compressed into a single node, and the rest of the algorithm can be run on this new graph of $K+1$ nodes.

The time complexity is now $O(N+MlogM+2^KK^2)$, since updating weights on a path in the tree takes $O(K)$ rather than $O(N)$.