# Codeforces Round 995 (#2051)

## A. Preparing for the Olympiad (estimate: 800)
Go through each day $i$. If $i=N$ then Monocarp should train on this day because Stereocarp won't train on the following day. Otherwise, we see that the greedy strategy is for Monocarp to train on day $i$ if Stereocarp solves less problems the following day. Formally, $a_i<b_{i+1}$. Test all values of $i$ in $O(N)$.

## B. Journey (estimate: 900)
There are three cases: either the day we stop on is the day we walk $A$ km, or it's the day we walk $B$ km, or $C$ km.

For the first case, the amount of days we take to walk $\ge{N}$ km, while ending on a day that we walk $A$ km on, is precisely $1+\lceil{{N-A}\over{A+B+C}}\rceil$. For the second case, it's $2+\lceil{{N-A-B}\over{A+B+C}}\rceil$. For the third, it's $\lceil{N\over{A+B+C}}\rceil$. Take the minimum of all three cases and return that as our answer. This takes $O(1)$ to calculate.

## C. Preparing for the Exam (estimate: 1100)
If Monocarp knows all $N$ questions ($K=N$), then he passes every test. Because every test has $N-1$ questions, then if he knows $N-2$ or less, he can't pass any exam. If he knows exactly $N-1$ questions, then let the one question he doesn't know be $C$. For each test $i$, Monocarp can pass the $ith$ test if $a_i=C$; i.e. the question he doesn't know is the one not on the test. This runs in $O(N+M+K)$.

## D. Counting Pairs (estimate: 1300)
Let the sum of the array be $S$. Go through each value $a_i$; if we remove this value $a_i$, then the second value removed can be anything in the range $[S-a_i-Y,S-a_i-X]$. Binary search on these two values in the array to find the amount of indices in this range, and add it to the answer. Any index $j$ in that range, when paired with $i$, forms a valid $(i,j)$ pair. $O(NlogN)$ time complexity.

To avoid double-counting pairs, before processing $a_i$, I remove it from the array.

## E. Best Price (estimate: 1600)
The only prices we care about are $a_i$ and $b_i$ values. Now consider candidate prices in sorted order. When considering a price $P$, let $A$ equal to the number of $i$ satisfying $a_i=P$ and $B$ be the number of $i$ with $b_i=P$. These two values can be stored in a map. Additionally, let the number of customers $i$ who will buy a tree (satisfying $P\le{b_i}$) be $T$ and the number of customers who will leave a negative review be $R$ (satisfying $a<P\le{b_i}$).

A candidate for the answer is $TP$ if and only if $R\le{K}$. After this, we'll update the values $T$ and $R$ for all future $P$, as to avoid having to recalculate them constantly. The following holds: $T=T-B$ and $R=R+A$.

Sorting is the bottleneck for the time complexity, at $O(NlogN)$.

## F. Joker (estimate: 2100)
My brain doesn't seem to be properly running today lol; I came up with the solution but in an extremely messy process.

The position of the joker can be expressed by a set of ranges, and the union of all ranges is the answer. Initially, we only have one range $[M,M]$. We can see that in query $i$, we will go through all ranges $[l,r]$ and test the following. If $a_i<l$, then depending on whether or not we put $a_i$ on the left or right side of the pile, we'll end up with ranges $[l,r]$ or $[l-1,r]$. The union is what we care about, so the new range is $[l-1,r]$. If $a_i>r$ then the new range is $[l,r+1]$.

If $l\le{a_i}\le{r}$ then the card we pick may be the joker, so we need to add on the ranges $[1,1]$ and $[N,N]$. Depending on whether side we put $a_i$, this current range becomes either $[l+1,r]$ or $[l,r-1]$ so the union is still $[l,r]$. This is unless $l=r$, because then we delete the range.

It's clear that we have at most $3$ ranges, one prefix range, one middle range, and one suffix range, which are easy to maintain. Idk an easy way to calculate the union so I did it pretty brute-force. $O(Q)$ time complexity as well.

## G. Snakes (estimate: 2100)
The right bound of $10^9$ is completely trivial because an optimal placement of the snakes won't even get close to it. Also, add a snake $s_N$ at the very right of all the other snakes, that effectively serves as a right bound. We can say that it's optimal for the earliest snake to be placed at cell $1$, so the cost of some permutation of snakes, when the permutation is placed optimally, is equal to the position of $s_N$ minus $1$. Our goal is to minimize the position of $s_N$ by finding the optimal permutation.

Calculate an array $cost[i][j]$ denoting the minimum distance required between the starting positions of snakes $i$ and $j$ such that they won't collide after all queries. This can be done in $O(N^2Q)$ or $O(NQ)$ with simulation and 2p. I initially wanted to take the cost array and run the Hungarian algorithm on it, but can't seem to get that to work although I'm pretty sure it's a valid solution.

Doing bitmask dp is simpler, letting $dp[mask][last]$ being the minimum position of $s_{last}$, given that we have placed all snakes in $mask$ and the last snake placed is $last$. Using the $cost$ array, we can pretty easily do this in $O(2^NN^2)$. At the end, return $dp[2^N-1][N]-1$.

Time complexity: $O(NQ+2^NN^2)$.